"When a boy tried to fool me so he would be OK trying to show me
that he is a good boy."
"I felt anger when I saw that I was being misleaded by my á
boyfriend, he went out with other girls. I felt anger for his á
falsity."
"Once a friend had pushed me and I had fallen on to a window which á
then broke.  I was taken to tthe principal's office and he á
accused me of having broken the window."
"When I was misleaded by a person who assured that something would á
not occur, that I had no reason to prepccupy myself, and suddenly á
I saw myself implicated by the fact, because of the incompetence, á
and irresponsibility of that person."
"I don't use to lie to my parets about what I do, and the two á
times that I felt anger were when they doubted me I said that I á
was going to the club, and they didn't believe me because the day á
before they had met me at FLIPERAMA. I had the wish to kil"
During the short period of my unemployment about six years back.
When my chief accused me of an error that I hadn't made.
"A girl entered in the division where I work and greeted everybody á
but not me."
"When I was dancing with a dame at a social, one of my friends who  á
was interested in her came and took her away from me.  I was á
really angry with him then."
"My mother was ill and asked me to prpare our lunch. I went to do it, á
and while I was working, she stayed behind me telling what I á
had, or not to do. I asked her to stop meddling, and to go to á
bed. When I went to ask for help to my sister, my mother "
"In the University we were convoked to a stroll like a freshman I á
was still innocent about the manipulation. On seeing the goal of á
the exaltation to poor character people, I felt anger on feeling á
myself mass of maneuver."
"I loved a person and he went away. It wasn't necessary that he á
left me to reach his goals."
"When I realized that the person I was courting hadn't been really á
by my side for a long time already. He had deceived me and I let á
him deceive me."
"[ During my childhood when I could not get what I wanted from my á
brother/sister and parents.]"
"In the last year of the high school we had a huge fight between á
my group and the graduation commission (two students of my á
classroom) because they accused us unjustly of a gossip about á
them."
My mother in law slept in my bed.
[ Ther are many instances which are all equally irritating.]
"In certain occasion I have a fight with my boyfriend. During the á
fight I closed the door at his face. He went away but came back á
next day."
"One day I lent my tennis I just had washed to my sister because á
she asked it. I asked her not to soil it as I had just washed it. á
Next day I looked at the tennis, and it was dirty with wax. She á
could not have soiled it. It was lack of consideration."
"Sometime ago I felt very angry when my mother wrote me telling me á
that my elder sister was messing up things at home by her á
internalised aggressive attitude towards parents and her husband."
When I was robbed in a bus.
"When my mother slapped me in the face, I felt anger at that á
moment."
"Somebody wanted to beat my brother at a wedding ceremony and I á
was trying to protect my brother but the other man was calling á
names to both of us."
"Once I had an argument with my friends and I knew that I was á
right.  My friends went on arguing with me even though they did á
not know the right thing."
When I had a serious argument with a dear person.
"A chief was unjustly punished on an autumn brigade and the one á
who was really guilty kept silent. I stepped in front and told á
the truth. The guilty chief called me in after the roll-call and á
threatened me."
"When I left after the examination to enter the University, and á
even though I had studied the whole year I made a bad exam. "
"When I was doing research a few months ago, I had asked the á
Institute to sponsor me for a computer course which was held in á
TISS.  However, because of the administrative officer I could not á
get the money."
"I was on a farm with a few friends and during the talk I á
discovered that a friend of mine, was being betrayed by her á
boyfriend and a 3rd friend of ours."
"I felt anger against a person who told bad things about me in my á
absence."
"[ On discovering the red-tapism and the bureaucratic, corrupt, á
decadent, degenerated infrastucture of every public utility, á
office and service; and the rampant corruption at every single á
level of education and other institutions.]"
"When a colleague was rude with me because she didn't understand á
the subject about which I was discussing."
"I felt much anger when my fahter interferred in my relations with á
another person whom I liked very much, ending something that I á
adored."
"I felt angry when repeated pleas to the ticket collector and the á
co-passengers in order to make a queue fell on deaf ears.  I have á
this feeling whenever someone is not disciplined and methodic in á
doing his duty."
"And she said absurd things, false things that filled my ears and á
inflated my head which seemed to be caught in a carcass where the á
heart wanted to explode and where the arm wanted to knock down á
the world."
"This was the worst incident of my hostel life.  I was insulted by á
a close friend of mine on the eve of the New year and it totally á
spoiled my New year's night."
"Discussion with my mother about the way to educate my children. I á
felt anger against my mother."
"When my sister took something that belonged to me without my á
permission."
"I had made an error in planning a programme and had publicly á
accepted the mistake, despite repeated requests not to bring the á
matter for discussion a professor kept constantly passing remarks. á
I reacted angrily.á
 "
"My grandmother is a highly authoritative person, who lives alone, á
is independent, but doesn't know to live without commanding the á
others. I hate this!"
"When my brother went out with my new shirt that I adored, and á
returned it dirty with grease."
"A few days back a friend of mine poked me in the ribs for fun's á
sake, though I had warned him an infinite number of times that it á
really hurts me, he did it again.  I usually ignore this but this á
time I flared up for a split second and threatened to"
"A ex-boyfriend tried to prejudice me before my fiancT and his á
family saying things about me that let his family worried. We had á
to postpone our wedding and we were already using our wedding á
rings. To be honest I didn't feel just anger, I felt hate."
When I was punished in school for no serious mistake of mine.
"Without the employer's knowledge and even without any á
communication their bank accounts were changed and their personal á
accounts closed."
"I felt much anger and perhaps I feel it till now, against my á
girlfriend's sister who incited her to betray me just when I á
needed her very much. She didn't think of anything, simply á
passed over everything."
"One day my room-mate started imitating me, doing what I had done á
a few hours back.  I got very angry and started beating him up."
"Once in my work it happened a fight between the person in charge and me. I á
got so angry and spoke out everything I felt at the moment."
"I was travelling from Delhi to Bombay.  I had booked a seat one á
month back and I had also got a telegram confirming this.  á
However, in the train my name had been omitted from the á
reservation sheet, and the one seat that was still vacant was á
allote"
"When my brothers were being cruel to my boyfriend, because his á
flat-mate bent back one of my brother's fingers. It wasn't his á
fault."
"When my boss cut off my vacations saying that in that month it á
wouldn't be possible, and after some time he let another girl á
take vacations that month. The anger was because of the á
resentment. Resulting from our bad relationship."
"When one teacher unjustly gave me zero in a test saying that I á
was cribbing."
"One day in a crossroad somebody crashed my car. I got out and á
this person laughed at me. I felt such a great anger that I got á
in my car and went away."
"I missed an opportunity to go abroad because of some silly á
mistakes for which I had to suffer a lot."
"When a so-called friend let me down, when she promised to tell me á
when a certain concert was occurring, and that she'd get me á
tickets. I was really looking forward to it. She did nothing, á
just told me out of the blue one day what a fantastic concert"
"After seeing an ""uncertain"" child work on a model for several á
hours, I watched a ""bully"" of the same age destroy it, telling á
the child that it was worthless."
When I got low marks in B.Sc final.
"My ex-boyfriend began to date my best friend. After they had been á
seeing each other, I found out that he had been sleeping with á
another girl, without my friend knowing, I told my friend what he á
had been doing behind her back."
"This also happened when I was very small.  I was beaten up by my  á
mother for no fault of mine, I had just beaten up my younger á
brother for what I thought was his fault.  I was very angry with á
my mother."
"Anger at doctors for their treatment of me after giving birth. á
They left part of placenta behind and I bled heavily for twelve á
weeks - due to this, I felt weak and emotional, and they said I á
needed psychiatric treatment and give me no support."
"I went to the school library and asked for a book, but the á
librarian told me that there wasn't such. However when an other á
colleague asked for it she gave it to him."
"I was very angry when my friend lost my practical's journal, á
which I needed to study for the exams."
"I was most angry when India lost the Triangular Cricket trophy á
held in Australia.  I was so angry that I fought (orally) with my á
friend."
"I was informed by my flatmate that, when we'd moved into our á
flat, she'd expected us to buy our food separetely - this event á
actually happened some 5 months after our sharing began. Prior to á
this, she had said nothing."
"When I was teased by my friend for not scoring good marks in the á
exams."
"As a child - about 8 years old - walking across a paddock - being á
set upon by another boy who claimed it was ""his land"" - being á
intimidated by the boy - crying, being punched, etc."
"I wanted to go to Bhopal for relief work (gas tragedy).  My boss á
simply refused to let me go, I was so angry that the only thought á
that came to my mind was to quit the job."
"I was angry at a University tutorial when an ignorant loudmouth á
persisted in trying to dominate the conversation."
With self at losing an important game that I should have won.
"I was the compere at a party and all my efforts to get the show á
rolling were thwarted by the immobile, non co-operative guests.  á
I felt frustation - bordering on anger."
An unjust calumny concerning me.
My grandfather's funeral.
"[ When bad and disgusting language is uttered by people, or when á
someone tries to show what is beyond his own capacities.]"
"My flatmate was asking questions about my relationship with my á
boyfriend, whether I wasn't treating him as unfairly as I claimed á
he'd been treating me. As a result, I was angered, and became á
defensive."
When they stole my dark blue tennis.
"Discussing with a certain person about a job I was getting and á
that perosn was negative and pessimistic."
"When a person is privileged in account of situations that are á
unjust, and disloyal to colleagues and friends."
"When a teacher tells a story which isn't true. It only reflects á
his way of interpreting reality."
"When I used to go to my chief asking about any doubt about the job á
and he didn't care, didn't answer me, leaving me speaking alone."
"We were just about to go into the Exam room and I didn't see all á
my writing materials plus the identification card from the place á
where I left them."
"The fact that I hadn't been informed about something and I had the á
greatest trust in this person."
"Nearby the end of the year my wife and I were having a car ride, á
when it appears another vehicle, driven by a drunk driver and á
provokes an accident."
An old lady slipped and nobody helped her.
"About the car (sadness) I felt anger the way I acted after á
negotiating it."
"I'm crazy about football. When my team lost a goal in the Paulist á
championship, and so it lost the classifications."
"When my neighbours accused my brother of stealing their á
rose-bush, I was very angry as he had not touched it at all."
"I felt anger of a friend when she met ""a date"" and become nervous á
and pest as she always gets when she meets him."
"It happened that my brother promised to give me money for school á
and then he told me that he had failed to fulfil his promise a á
day before school started. I became so angry for I thought my á
future would be ruined."
"My class leader told me I am not chosen for your English á
lectures."
"When they denied a job to a person that I propsed giving political á
reasons that has nothing to do directly with the professional á
level."
People not cueing in the dining hall.
I feel anger when things don't come out as I wish.
"I felt anger when I had a fight with my father, and he beated me. á
My mother came to help me (because I was beeing beated) and he á
also beated my mother."
"A classmate told me I must have bribed the class leader to let me á
go to your English lecture."
"This feeling occurred to me when my colleague entered in G.V. á
(University) and I didn't."
When they changed my office to another room without my agreement.
Insulted by some stupid people.
I feel anger when somebody forbids me to do something.
Insulted by disgusting people.
"The doctors from Belogradchik town determined a wrong diagnosis á
to my son. A month later, after some complex examinations at ISUL á
(A medical institute in Sofia), the diagnosis was categorically rejected."
"When I encountered not only with my father's lack of á
understanding but also with his unwillingness to understand me as á
a parent, as far as things for which I (not he) have proves to be á
right are concerned."
"About a month ago the Regional Council refused to pay my wife the á
due maternity benefit, because of bureaucratic reasons."
"I was walking on a street alone in the afternoon when there were á
not too many people on the street.  A couple of guys were á
following me and I was ignoring them.  Suddenly one of them came á
in front of me and started using dirty language and harrassin"
I was neglected undeservedly.
"A friend of mine promised to come with me to the cinema but he á
didn't come."
[ I feel angry when somebody is unjust to me.]
"It was quite recently, at the football match between the national á
teams of Bulgaria and France. I felt strong anger with the Scottish á
referee who ran the match quite partially."
I was angry this morning when I missed the train to university.
When someone lies to me.
"One day my elder brother badly scolded my father.  This was the á
first time that I heard such abusive language from my brother.  I á
requested him humbly not to use this kind of language but he did á
not care for what I was saying.  Finally I picked up a"
"I was to meet a friend at the bus-stop (he was coming to visit á
us) and he did not turn up.  After having waited for him for some time     á
(about an hour) I called him up, to be told that he did not á
intend to come as he was feeling tired."
"At an undeserved attitude toward a man, when human personality is á
not treated decently."
"When my friend promised that she would come to my place, and did á
not turn up - I was annoyed at her."
"Unfair and unjust attitude toward a person close to me, what I á
was the witness of, caused anger in me."
"I feel this feeling when I am to fill in a questionnaire or a á
form."
"I was having an argument with my brother on his behavior, then we  á
started fighting and I got annoyed at him because he started á
teasing me."
"In a conversation my boyfriend expressed definite and quite á
pretentious opinions and he took up an attitude towards a theory á
which he himself had never known. His information was from á
fortuitous sources."
"Anger I felt when my boyfriend told me he didn't mind breaking it á
off with me, i.e. each of us to take his own road. Because until á
that moment, he deliberately restricted our dates. The motives á
were brought to my knowledge later."
When I failed the M.S.C exams.
"At an unjust, or to be more precise, at a bureaucratic treatment á
of one's personality."
"A few months ago when I was teaching, I suddenly became very á
angry at the children and slapped some of them."
Unjust punishment of a friend of mine.
"When I see how people around me pass by certain unjustice because á
of indifference or cowardice."
"I unfairly got a low mark on an exam and I failed to win a grant, á
since then I don't have much confidence in myself at an exam."
"One winter day I, unwillingly, was outdoors with my younger á
brother (10 years younger than me).  I lost my temper on him and á
wanted to throw my brother down the snow bank we were on.  I á
pushed him but not as hard as I had wanted to. We were alone th"
"I got angry when I learned how short a time we had to prepare for á
the term examinations."
When my husband stays late at a meeting and I have to be alone.
Same situation as before - having my car stolen.
"I felt it when a girl who was dear to me lied to my face. I got á
angry with the fact that she knew I didn't believe her but she á
kept on telling lies."
"Having my personal objects rearranged by someone else without my á
consent and having it arranged to their taste. Then trying to á
find a particular object they rearranged for an hour or more."
"With the girl whom I may be loved truly. When she refused to come á
with me to an occasion (she was from another town)."
"I always get angry when somebody deceives me, or tries to conceal á
his lie skilfully and this offends me even more."
"I came out of the house at 7:20 am Monday morning getting ready t á
go to school and fight for a parking when I saw my car had a flat á
tire."
"I got angry with a stranger in a train who behaved impertinently á
and immorally"
"When my father talks about our relatives and favours them, I feel á
angry."
"I was stood up for a date function by someone who I really cared á
for."
"I thought him a good friend but he tried to lie to me several times. á
Last time was the height of impudence. He promised he would come á
home but he didn't. I felt a sense of anger and insult."
"When my dad told me about something he had done against my á
mother."
"When I am made to do things in which I see no sense and I waste á
my time. Some time ago I had to participate in a sociological á
investigation and then I got really angry."
"I was drawn up a statement for an infringement of the traffic á
ordinance. In fact I was innocent."
When I failed my S.S.C exam.
"A honest ""sliding"" on the part of a girlfriend of mine. á
Terribly crossed I started breaking things and tearing books."
"My husband and I were invited at the house of our nieghbours then á
we got an invitation on the part of my parents which we had to á
refuse. A a result they called me by words that provoked my á
anger."
"I was angry at my brother over an argument we had together.  We á
do have a few fights from time to time, and also at times I take á
out my anger on him."
I feel a strong anger when I am treated unjustly.
"I felt angry when my mother-in-law did not handle my daughter á
properly and she fell down from the bed and hurt her head."
"Attitude to some manners of dealing and some ""sanctioned"" á
relations."
"I get angry when my smaller brother misbehaves and talks with indecent á
words."
"[ This emotion has never been an intense one, that makes it á
difficult to recall it.]"
A close person lied to me.
"I had an accident with a trafic police car that was packed at a á
curve without any visibility and against all traffic regulations á
in a strong snowstorm. As a result I still cannot repair my car á
because of the missing spare parts."
"When a relative, who had come to our place, created untidyness á
and dirtyness."
"I felt it on the same occasion when I felt sadness which finally á
grew into anger."
"I felt anger against a colleague of mine during a rehearsal in á
acting. He hadn't learnt the text of an opera act in the course of á
several months and thus making difficulties for the rest of my á
colleagues."
"My friend and I were to attend a very important meeting and he á
had promised to come and pick me up.  But he did not turn up and á
I felt very angry at him."
"When playing a football match, there was one player who made mean á
tackels, kicked at everything and did things having nothing to do á
with football."
"I was very angry one day when my husband ignored me and slept      á
on a separate bed.  He had no reasons to doubt me or to neglect á
me and I had never imagined that he could do such a thing."
"When my mother decided to clean out my room and throw out what á
she thought was junk, without my knowing about it, so I returned á
home to find half my stuff gone."
"I remember that when I was in school I saw a case of partiality - á
one of the teachers gave private coaching classes to some girls á
and she would give these girls extra attention in class and would á
ignore the others."
"When I was blamed for some of my attributes which are very often á
misunderstood, especially when one is very frank."
"Someone stole my ski at Vitosha and of course I was the one to be á
blamed. I left them without supervision."
"When my friend (girl) promised to help me go to the hospital and be á
examined by good experts and she deceived me."
"My brother accused me undeservedly before my parents. I was not á
guilty. He was misled by his wife."
"I experience this emotion quite often but the day I was most á
angry was the day I got pulled up for something I had not done.  á
It happened during my school days, I had not spoken a word in á
class but the monitor had written my name on the board.  So I"
"I feel anger when I see a ""parent"" beating and punishing his child á
in the street. Recently I was a withness of a similar case."
"At a certain situation I felt myself neglected and undeservedly á
harmed."
"A new gas connection was to be installed and the mechanic who came á
to do it was very rude to my mother and me.  I rushed to thhe á
dealer with my mother and had a fight with the dealer as he á
seemed to be unreasonable and was taking the mechanic's side"
I was angry when my abilities of a singer were underestimated.
Once, during a performance I did not sing the way I had to.
"When I saw a few people beating a man who seemed to be a á
stranger."
"I was waiting to receive the participation on the profits and did á
not receive it."
"Despite our good performance and excellent results the management á
refused to meet our demands."
"A shop-assistant behaved rather roughly with me though she hadn't á
the slightest grounds for it."
"I have a friend that I deeply trusted but it happened that I lost á
my confidence in her for which she herself was to blame."
"I was indignant at the unimpartiality shown by the referees at á
the football match between Bulgaria and France."
I haven't often felt this feeling. Once someone stole my garment.
"When, for example, I was not approved to continue my studies at á
the Moscow University, no matter that I had the highest marks and á
in general the best records of all the candidates."
"One of my friends asked me to go shopping with her, another á
friend of hers was also coming along.  During the outing they á
kept talking to each other and I felt left out, even when I tried á
to talk to them they seemed not to listen to me and did not p"
"In the house where I live there is a new flatmate. His friends á
unfortunately are the dirt of society, intelligent, fashonable, á
rich and bored. At a party recently they were doing things I á
didn't like done in my house. I felt angry at them."
"I am separated from my husband.  The way he has behaved towards á
me makes me angry."
"A friend got angry and drove ""like a lunatic"" with me and others á
in his car. I was angry about his dangerous driving."
"I've a situation of responsibility an employee who had a habit of á
being late, came late again after promising to say he would be at á
work in a few minutes, then arrived 3 hours later. He had been á
drinking."
"A girl whom I trusted and with whom I had shared personal, confidential á
matters twisted the facts and told it to a common friend of ours. á
 When this common friend told me the version my friend had told á
her, I was angry."
"Teenage neighbours smashed my letterbox for the fifth time in a á
couple of months. It was a deliberate action of kids who had á
stayed in my home, had meals there yet took a dislike to my á
daughter. "
"A whole crowd of us went to a folklore festival. The instructor á
of the cast where my boyfriend played was traveling with us. We á
decided to catch the train that leaved early in the morning á
because we had business on the following day. The instructor "
"One morning I was standing at the bus-stop and the bus passed by á
without stopping, even though there were only 8-10 passengers á
inside.  I felt angry at the rude behaviour of the bus driver and  á
conductor."
"When I was at S.Y.Bajaj I wanted to get admission in another á
college and this was not easy and I felt angry. "
"I was not given a chance to explain to my close relatives as to á
why I could not go to visit them when they were ill.  When I did á
go, they thought that I had been selfish and irresponsible duringá
their illness."
"I get angry when someone imputes on me things I never can do, á
naturally negative. Servility, ""connections"", impudence, traits á
that get me mad."
"I experience that feeling when I am unsulted without deserving á
it or when someone deceives me."
"Uncleaniness at my work place.  The place is generally not very á
clean, but when it reaches a point, I get angry at the person á
who is supposed to clean the place and the people who are á
supposed to supervise him."
"I get angry with people who attain certain status without á
deserving it, only with the support, authority and influence of á
other people."
"I shared a secret with a friend and it later turned out that he á
had revealed it to another person with whom I didn't get along very well."
"When the others did not do their bit of work on a group á
assignment task, and I had to do all the work."
They wanted something to happen but I didn't.
"When you are unjustly assessed at something you are sure to have á
been right."
When I was insulted by a man.
"When I was a soldier I quarrelled with my commander and may be in á
revenge for this he detailed me on duty two successive nights. á
Naturally he checked me up on the second night and found me á
asleep for which he sent me to the cells."
People hunting animals.
"As I usually do not start learning until a short time before an á
examination,, I once made up my mind to try to work for a longer á
time. But once again I did not do it - and got a bad mark."
"My sister had promised to help me to do a translation from á
English into German. But the day I needed her she told me that á
she was busy - I was very angry."
"I was angry when my friends said that I should not receive á
Nursing Science books because there was a rumour that I was á
intending to leave the college."
"I was angry with a person who behaved terribly at a ball á
offending her relatives."
"When in a difficult moment I couldn't express myself correctly á
and my thought came out with distortions bringing about highly á
negative and distorted results."
I was angry when somebody stole my half petticoat.
"When I talked with a teacher yesterday who, to say the least, was á
rude and unwise and had irrelevant opinions about a friend."
"When I was dismissed unjustly from the firm where I worked, á
because there where persons that didn't have problems, and á
wouldn't miss in the jobs they occupied if they were dismissed."
A tailor ran away with my skirt.
When I talk to silly, petty-minded and unmanageable people.
"Sometime back another girl who was in terms with my ex-boyfriend á
came to shout at me at twelve midnight. It was because she á
thought I was still interested in the boy."
"I wrote an Exam and happened to have not done as well as I á
thought I would. I was angry to myself for not having done so á
well."
When boyfriend lied to me.
"I was furious when the teacher pointed out in class that I á
was the quietest girl in class."
"My feelings towards would-be in-laws for their participation in á
recent broken relationship."
"When I wanted to talk to someone I liked and whom I have been á
told likes me (by his brother and even by himself) however he á
avoids any confrontation, and is vague."
"When I was house-hunting: Another person got a flat that I would á
have liked, too, because he heaped a floot of words on the á
letter."
I was angry when my boyfriend did not turn up as promised.
"I was angry about several drivers who showed an aggressive and á
dangerous driving habit."
"I was waiting behind a car which was going to leave the parking á
place, because I wanted to park my car there. Because of uncoming á
traffic I had to wait for a short time - another driver placed á
his car on the place."
"I had been in love with a certain young man who pretended to love á
me but one day I found out that he had another girlfriend who was á
also a friend of mine."
"I was in ""Hainburg"" in December and I was angry about the á
politicians and the police."
"At school, a couple of years ago, a so-called acquaintance told lies á
about me to a teacher I was told about it by friends who overheard á
the conversation."
"I was very hungry and just wanted to start eating when a friend á
called me who usually talks for a long time. I was angry because á
I was prevented from eating."
"This was when my boyfriend told me that I was double-crossing him á
with a certain boy."
"I was angry about how the government acted concerning Hainburg, á
especially when I saw a discussion about it on TV."
"When I come home in the evening, the first thing I do is to sit á
down and smoke a cigarette. One day I found the flat in a totally á
desolate state. My girl-friend had wanted to tidy up but had not á
finished."
When a little brother of mine damaged a cassette.
"A man treated his dog very badly - he insulted and beated him á
until the dog kept lying on the floor with his tail drawn in."
"During the Xmas holiday, I and my best friend at Secondary School á
had planned to meet at a Cultural afternoon at the Mt. Soche á
Hotel after missing each other for such a long time. When I asked á
my mother for permission, she told me not to go for no g"
"My parents are divorced, father pays alimony for me. Two years á
ago my sister who lives with father, suddenly asked mother for á
money. As she considered the amount of money my mother offered á
her too small, she brought an action against mother. I was á"
"I had got a bad cold. My father said I must be crazy to go by á
motorbike at those temperatures. When I answered him that I did á
not care about a cold, he said that if I did not care for á
anything I could leave him (it was for the second time he said á
"
"One day I was angry with my friend who went into my drawer and á
took a piece of paper on which I wanted to write a letter and á
used it for her business without my knowledge."
"I had studied for almost one week for my physics-examination. á
With difficulty I passed the examn. I was angry about the teacher á
and also about myself because I had not remembered enough during á
the examn and because the time that I spent studying was"
"I was angry when someone stole a magazine which I had borrowed á
from another friend and locked it in a drawer."
"Last week a friend of mine called on me and said I was moody and á
difficult to persuade. With this I got angry with her."
When I felt being treated unjustly by a teacher.
When I damaged my wristwatch which I liked very much.
"When I am discussing something with a person and I realize that á
the other person is thinking over her own argumentations instead á
of listening, I become angry."
"At an examination I got a bad mark just because of a small á
mistake. When I went to the lector and wanted to talk about that, á
he did not listen to me but sent me away."
"It was during the beginning of the term. I had K100 and kept it á
in my handbag. I left the handbag in the wardrobe but didn't á
lock it. Next time I found that K30 were stolen."
"I had arranged with a friend to go with him to Carinthia by car. á
We had arranged a place where to meet. I was a bit late and my á
friend had left already. I had no money to go by train. I nearly á
started to cry because I was so angry - it was very impo"
"I had stolen a bottle of rum from a person who knows me well. He á
threatened to call the police if I did not pay 500 Shillings."
"I went to a fair where a guy who was drunk kept bothering me and á
in the end I got really angry."
"When we still attended school, my brother and I usually went to á
see our aunt and to show her our term's report. She rewarded us á
with money. Although my reports were as good as my brother's, he á
got more money."
"A friend was unpunctual, we wanted to prepare ourselves for an á
examination."
"I share my small flat with my friend. On her birthday we could á
not see each other until evening because we had to stay at the á
University all day. In the evening I left a lecture before it á
finished to be able to buy flowers for her. When I was at hom"
"A friend had promised to call me at a certain time. I expected á
his call impatiently but in vain."
"New Year's Eve party in the country, I hardly knew a person; my á
partner spent most of the time at the bar. I had little á
opportunity to get to know people because our table was separated á
and my boyfriend's parents were present."
"The headmistress at a secondary school accused me of banging the á
classroom door when I didn't in front of the whole class."
"A colleague asked me to study with her. I could not explain á
things as perfectly as she had expected. So she reacted in an á
aggressive manner."
"One of my friends went and told another friend of mine that I was á
going abut with another guy in Lilongwe besides the one I had. á
She said I was seen with him hand in hand."
"When I lost my driving license because I had been driving while á
under the influence of alcool."
"Recently a good friend only called me when he needed something. á
He never said ""please"" or ""thank you"" or any other kind word."
"It was when I discovered that my boyfriend had another girl. I á
discovered it through a letter he wrote to the girl when he was á
away. When I asked him he accepted it."
"I wanted to see a friend, I had been looking forward to it and á
had certain expectations, but he did not pay any attention to me, á
played cards with other people."
"I wanted to go to a friend of mine who had a party; at the moment á
I wanted to leave, my father said I couldn't go because he needed á
me for some work in the afternoon."
Made mistakes in exam.
I had a quarrel with my parents; I was convinced to be right.
"When we rearranged furniture in our flat and got stuck in a á
chair."
My friend misunderstood me.
"I helped my little sister (13 years) learning mathematics. á
Obviously she did not want to understand what I explained and á
started to cry. I grew angry."
"My girlfriend started singing (she cannot sing) and did not stop á
despite my asking her to do so."
Listening to long speech of the party leaders wasting my time.
"When I came for the lesson, it was cancelled and I had to fill in á
a questionnaire instead."
My bed sheet (present of my parents) damaged by roommate.
"While playing a ball game, I was just about to make a goal when I á
was thrown off my feet, and I failed to score the goal."
"I read in the newspaper that the Student Lodging Fund was going á
to build new appartments for refugees (in my opinion this is the á
state's affair).  This is when only a fractoin of the students á
can find an appartment."
"South Korea winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympic (more á
than China)."
"The last day of school is traditionally celebrated by singing a á
song about all the students who are leaving.  In the song á
about me, there were things which irritated me a lot."
"A friend of mine had promised to arrange me some tickets for a á
concert which I considered important.  He could not get them the á
way he thought he would, so he gave up the whole thing."
"Too many people in TV room, I was not able to get a seat to watch á
TV."
"At the weekend I wanted to be absent from school because of a á
sports event, but my teacher refused to give me the day off á
because he didn't like me."
"I went singing with a group of young people on January 6th (The á
three Magi), a local custom called ""star singing"". One of the girls, my á
girlfriend, broke the star. Being the accompanying person, I felt very á
angry thinking of the consequences."
"My best friend started moving out with my boyfriend. When I heard á
this my heart sank because I didn't expect that my own good á
friend could do such a thing, so I got angry."
When my dress was stolen.
"At the end of my holiday job I got less money than was due to me á
and nobody mentioned anything about that."
"I was angry at the Cafeteria when the cook scolded and said many á
bad things about me without reason. He thought I was among the á
girls who did him wrong."
"It happened in a tram: some older people started to grumble about á
the young people just because I had not immediately left my seat á
to them."
"My mother treated me unjustly as if I was a little child. I said á
mean things. I was unable to defend myself adequately."
"When a certain boy went about saying that I am his girlfriend. I á
wrote him an insulting letter to him and called him names."
"After an exhausting day I came home and wanted to take a bath to á
relax. My father wanted to take a bath first and when he had á
finished after an hour, there was no hot water left for me."
"During the Christmas holdidays I wanted to invite my brother, his á
girlfriend and their child for dinner. When I said to my á
brother's girlfriend that I would like them to come at my place á
for dinner, she refused and never mentioned it again as if I á"
"A certain man went to my parents and told them that I was married á
here, when I am here at school. When I went home for holidays my á
parents asked me about it and I was angry with that man."
I felt angry when my friend told me that I had stolen her money.
"I was angry the other day because the teacher told me to sweep á
some orange peels. It was my friends who were supposed to sweep, á
but the teacher told me to do it."
"One day, when riding on a bicycle path, a car coming from the á
opposite direction forced me to get off my bike although I had á
the priority."
"I wanted to clear up a misunderstanding with a friend that I had á
caused. A third person meddled in our conversation, turned my á
efforts to ridicule so that I did not succeed in what I had á
intended."
"I was angry when I had not been granted a leave out pass during á
the last weekend."
"I arrived in Vienna in the middle of the night. I asked for some á
silly information - as I realized myself afterwards - and the inquiry  á
clerk reacted in a very arrogant manner."
"A friend who shares the room with me, opened the window in the á
morning and left the room the whole day. When I came home in the á
evening, the room was so cold that I couldn't stay there."
"Somebody took my wristwatch and promised to have it mended and á
later was telling me that he couldn't give it back to me because I was á
rude at a certain time."
"At the hairdresser's, I got two stains of dyestuff on my new á
trousers. These stains are not removable, so I cannot put on the á
trousers again."
"The patient whom I expected to get well suddenly passed away á
after he showed had his meals."
"A friend called me and told me that she wanted to come and see á
me. She lived in a village at 50 km distance fom my home town. á
Next morning I expected her but she didn't arrive. As I got á
impatient I called her but her parents told me that she had gon"
"A friend of mine tried to persuade me to go at her place to act á
as a model because she felt too tired. It was a quarter of an á
hour before the appointed time, I had just lied down and did not á
want to go because it was too late anyway. She said that I"
I was so angry with a patient who refused to take drugs.
"During a lecture, a colleague who did not know anything about the á
subject, got on my nerves asking silly questions."
"At school when I had a shouting argument with a friend over my á
ability to carry out a particular duty in the correct way without á
harming her."
"I was at the corner shop, which I patronise regularly I had only á
a $ 50 note and I purchased about $ 3 worth of goods that I á
really needed - the keeper made sarcastic remarks to others about á
people using him to cash notes."
"My girlfriend mentioned a certain girl's name who was my girl á
some time back and she is no longer mine that she said she was á
still mine."
"At the hardware store, trying to convert Imperial to Metric á
measurements, I made a mistake, and didn't buy enough tiles for á
the bathroom. I was angry at myself, because I hope to be a Maths á
teacher."
"My lovely girlfriend double-crossed me and so that I found her á
chatting with another guy."
"A person ignored my advice, did not pay any attention to what was á
saying. She acted as though I wasn't even there. We were doing á
group work so everybody had the right to speak yet she just á
ignored me. She made me feel insignificant."
"At a school dance when my supposed ""best friend"" kept walking á
away from me whenever I came near her."
"I was angry when I heard that my only girl was going about with á
another man. So I decided to drop her but later the story came to á
be untrue."
"When my mother and father split up I was angry: I felt deprived á
and ""different"" from other children at school."
"Brother provoked anger. It was when mother and father were away á
and we had to look after ourselves. He accused me of being á
selfish and a snob."
When I was charmed by my relatives.
"When I received the mark well above requirements for the course I á
wanted to enter, yet I was not accepted - anger at the injustice á
of it, because I didn't receive early release of H.S.C. marks."
"I felt angry when I heard that my sister had failed the á
Examinations which we hoped she was going to pass with á
distinctions."
"I felt angry when I was told that I had not been selected to go á
to the University."
Following an argument with my brother, he broke my golf clubs.
"I was very angry when I heard that my brother was beaten by his á
friends.á
"
"Finding that a subordinate at work was still not willing to á
cooperate after discussions to try and resolve an attitude á
problem."
"Last night - finding that someone in the house had eaten an á
entire packet of almonds I had bought for a family treat."
"I planned to travel a distance of 20 kilometres on my bike. I á
planned this when I was working in the hospital. When I went to á
the house I found that a friend had taken my bike without my á
consent."
"Not being alowed on a school camp with the class I'd been in for á
11 years (I had stayed down due to illness)"
"I was very angry when one day I went to see my girlfriend I á
talked to her and could not answer back. She was depressed for á
reasons which were not known to me."
"I walked in on a teenage patient of mine (I work in a hospital) á
as he was going through my office drawers and he had removed á
money from my purse."
"When my rights to use a shared house had been usurped by á
co-owners out of pure selfishness."
"Once when I was playing table tennis I was already sure that I á
would win , but at last I lost the game."
"Doing a group assignment and being left to do all the work and á
take the blame for any mistakes."
Getting terrible meals, but paying heaps for them.
"After I said something that my boyfriend disagreed with, he á
walked away from me without discussing what bothered him. I á
became very angry with him for treating me this way. Yesterday, á
November 14."
I learned that my girlfriend had been unjustly missed from work.
"I felt angry when my only pair of trousers was stolen and could á
not be able to find out who the thief was or anyone who knew á
about the story."
When an unknown person provoked me verbaly and physically.
"I was with my girlfriend when some guys that I don't like made á
fuss at my girl."
"My young brother took my wristwatch in my abscence and sold it to á
his friend at a cheaper price."
"I feel it when I see that somebody is traying to made a stupid of á
me."
When I was left by the person I loved without any reason.
"There is a mad boy in our village. This boy hit me with a raw á
paw-paw in the face."
Can't remember exact example.
"Going away for the weekend, leaving my College room open - when I á
returned several friends had had a party there, leaving the mess."
"My younger brother and I had been fighting over the TV/Video. He á
kept on turning it on and off every 2 seconds and was not á
listening to my authority and was being cheeky. We fought and I á
ended up in tears - he'd won."
"It was when my Instructor awoke me late at night to get prepared á
for the training at Military college when he was coming back from á
his personal social activities."
"A certain Area Party Secretary came home in the morning and said á
we had to leave our home and build somewhere and the reason á
being that they wanted to establish a market. The Chairman knew á
nothing about it and was very angry."
"While at school I had to write an essay for doing something wrong á
that I didn't do. I wrote the essay about how I was mistreated and á
got Saturday morning detention along with a few other kids, but á
they didn't show up."
"It was in March 1985 when one of my fellow students borrowed my á
wristwatch and after sometime he broke a glass of that watch I á
got angry when he was telling me but the anger didn't take long á
to fade."
"When my sister lost my favourite jumper at a party and failed to á
tell me for several days after it happened."
When I was put into a tennis team below my standard.
"The emotion came when a certain boy opened my locker without my á
knowledge."
When I was accused of "bitching" about best friend.
"This situation happened when my friend John ate my banana which I á
kept in the cupboard."
When a friend wouldn't speak to me and wouldn't tell me why.
"In a situation whereby a friend's actions were deliberately á
against my wishes and (with) no regard to my feelings."
"I once caught a letter in my girlfriend's handbag from a certain á
man. I felt anger."
"There was a cup final match between Limbe Leaf Wanderers and á
Silver Strikers and someone promised to give me some money for á
admission fee to watch this game. Unfortunately he did not give á
me."
"I once was accused of falling in love with someone's girlfriend á
which was not true because the girl was just a friend of mine."
"When a classmate hit me on my occipital region when I was busy á
studying and concentrating on my classnotes."
"I was angry when I watched a ski-race. All the Austrian skiers á
dropped out."
"At an office an application that I had made was turned down á
because of a scrupulous interpretation of the rules."
"One day I was really angry when all my food was eaten by a dog. á
My anger was against my mother because she was careless. She á
didn't keep the food in a hidden and proper place."
"A friend had promised to get me a book which was very important á
for my work, but she forgot it."
"I was angered by a classmate who poured soup on to my clothes. He á
was trying to use a short-cut method in getting his supper. á
Coming behind my back, he wasn't noticed by me and as I was á
retreating from a hungry congested people I knocked his plate á"
"My boy-friend had promised me to come home at about 10 p.m. He á
did not return until midnight and had consumed a lot of alcohol."
"I heard friends grumbling at me in an adjoining room, although á
they had behaved in a friendly way when I was present."
Someone told a lie that I had stolen his money.
"My boy-friend had promised me to come an 10 a.m. - he was 3 hours á
late."
"My girl-friend did not understand me; I was angry with myself á
because I had problems when we seperated - I could not resign á
myself to it."
"When I was doing my last year at Secondary School I was robbed of á
my clothes, wristwatch and my pair of shoes. After investigations á
it was found that all the things were stolen by one of the boys á
in our hostel."
When my mother kept me in leading-strings.
Brother took my money to use for his own purposes.
"I have a very big family. At my grandmother's funeral we all met á
and everybody pretended mourning. In reality it was like a á
fashion-show: everybody wanted to show himself."
"When I played in a chess championship, I was disturbed by other á
people. I asked them to be quiet, but in vain."
"When someone took my writing materials yet I was to write á
Examinations in a few minutes."
"I bought an aquarium which made me much pleasure. I was watching á
the fish when my father came in and asked me how much I had payed á
for it. He said he would not pay for the current that it would á
require."
"I had not eaten anything for 2 days to be able to pay the fine á
for my fiancT. But he stayed in another town and spent one á
thousand shillings in the restaurant during the same time."
"I felt angry at one time when I was chatting with friends and á
suddenly another friend joined us and started opposing any á
comment I added to our chatting."
"A friend of mine uses butter instead of oil when he is cooking. I á
am always angry about that, because it is an unnecessary luxury. á
Recently we both were cooking and he wanted to use butter again. á
When I had already put the oil into the pan, he poure"
"When an acquaintance of mine beat up another person for no just á
reason, and thus showed off his power."
I had an accident with damage to the car body.
"A person walking his dog allowed it to defecate on the footpath á
outside my house. Although it had happened before, this was the á
first time I had witnessed it. All the skills I had learnt from á
PY 263 were thrown out the window when his indifference t"
"I was enjoying the company of bird life while I was eating lunch á
in a park when a group of people began throwing sticks at some of á
the birds - for no reason other than the satisfaction of seeing á
them being scared away."
"Anger with boyfriend's best friend for alienating me and blaming á
me for personality changes in my boyfriend and changes in my á
boyfriend's attitude to him and his obvious egoistical attitude á
himself in doing so. I also lost one of my best friends - h"
"I experienced this when one of my friends reported to the á
Headmaster that I had gone out for beer, whilst the information á
was not true at all. So I had to fight the friend before the á
Headmaster."
"The mother of a person with whom we had been sharing a housing á
accused me of trying to rip her off over payment of bills in the á
house. "
"I had been having a heated argument with a lover - whose á
intention was that we should marry in the near future - and was á
rejected by her when I started to cry. When I stopped crying for á
a moment she said ""There, have you got it all out now ?""."
"I was once this week angry when soemone trying to compress my á
mind due to his nonsense speech which himself could not tolerate á
at all."
Anger towards my lover for being late.
"It was when my friend had stolen my money (K10) and had á
disappeared."
As for disgust.
"At one of my close friends saying she didn't like the way I am á
nice to people I don't know, or who have been nasty to me."
"My father had bought too many goods for his shop, there was not á
enough space to store them."
"When the person I am going out with let me down in a situation á
that I was depending on them, and didn't show respect or care."
"A friend of mine told other people that I was a slattern (because á
of an occurence that had happened some time ago). When I heard á
about that I was very angry."
"When I heard that I was not to be provided with another pair of á
medical uniform."
"Being stopped by the police for a traffic offence which I don't á
think I committed."
"An incident occurred to me when I was going home with my á
girlfriend. On the way, a man named Banda grabbed my girlfriend á
in my presence. I was really angry with him and as a result I á
threw stones at him and he ran away."
"A friend whom I had gone out of my way to do something for did á
not bother to acknowledge my efforts, and treated me badly á
thereafter."
Heated discussion with spouse concerning new house.
"When they put the blame on me when I scored the third goal at the á
match."
Boyfriend "chatting up" another girl.
"A friend had promised me to give me a lift to Graz. To be sure I á
called her before we went. She told me that she had just promised á
another person to give him a lift."
"It was at Malawi Army, Dormer Squadron, when some of my workmates á
got promoted to Seargents (sgts); we were having similar á
Ranks."
"I played chess with my 12-year-old brother. I made a stupid á
mistake - and he won!"
I felt very angry after one driver had run over my beloved niece.
"I got into an argument with a photographer for whom I had to pose á
twelve times, over  a period of four weeks, before I could get a á
snap of mine.  Every time the film was processed my snap did not á
come out although the others did."
"When they threw my holder down on the floor, with all my notes for á
an exam inside it and they got all mixed up."
"When males in my family try to assign house duties exclusively á
with referance to sex."
"A certain boy came into my room and started telling me that I was á
not pretty, that I had no manners and that I should learn some.  á
I had just come to campus and he was in fourth year."
"I had an exam and I had it well prepared.  I did the first part á
very well but did not know the second part."
"When I was young, I became very angry as I was not allowed to á
stay up all night for the fair in my town."
When I met my new girlfriend with another man in the street.
"When I saw a man hitting a child of 2 years without any consideration, á
simply because the child had been leaning against a window."
When I saw my brother being attacked and I could not do anything.
"I wrote an assignment and was given less marks than a friend with á
whom I had previously discussed the assignment."
"When they broke the artistic work of several weeks.  Changes were á
made and it was broken without permission, they had no right to á
do this."
"When a professor of this faculty laughed at, and was suspicious of á
a composition written by a class-mate and me."
"I learned that a class-mate had given a list, of peolpe who help á
each other in exams, to the professor."
When I failed an exam unfairly.
"When I found my boyfriend, who I had been dating for a year, at á
another girl's house. We had had previous conflicts concerning á
the girl, but he had always claimed they were just friends."
"An argument among several friends because of the irrational á
behavior of one of them who fell out with us for no reason and á
said that we were to blame."
"I saw in a movie a block on which affluence and poverty existed. á
I saw that the rich made no attempts to help the poor."
"During a family discussion on my future and my prospects as a á
student, they accused me of not bothering about looking for a job to á
assume my financial situation."
"Someone signed up for a workshift at the co-op where I live and á
she did not want to work the switchboard. I became very angry. á
She had mentioned earlier that she wanted and needed the á
workshift to me so I did not sign up."
"My cousins were playing at home and one of them broke a decorative á
object which was very precious to me."
"During an argument between friends, one of them accused me of á
taking advantage of some other friends who usually come to the á
university in my car, saying that I ask them too much money for á
the petrol."
"One of my first boyfriends got mad at me because a lot of my á
close friends were guys and he didn't want me to see them anymore á
because he was jealous."
A murder.
When I failed an exam I thought I would pass.
"In a very important basket-ball match where a lot was at stake, I á
played very badly."
"Sometimes when I go to work my crazy boss (a hyper Jewish lawyer) á
insists I do things his way (filing, typing, etc.). He sometimes á
blames me for things I didn't do, and I can't yell back at him."
"On the occasion of assignment of tasks and responsibilities in á
which such an assignment, dispropotionately carried with it high á
responsibility and low ability of organisation and resolution."
During my last exam.
When my kid brother broke my reading spectacles.
"We were at school, in the room for audiovisual classes.  We were á
watching a film, and just behind me two classmates were bothering á
me with their mocking and shoves.  I reacted angrily (I suppose)  á
by hitting one of them."
"A very close friend of mine was refused entrance to the medical á
school.  Her grades were very good and she should not have been á
left out.  Biased judgment !"
"When, after drinking a glass of water, I found a cockroach walking á
out of the glass."
"A person I trusted a lot gave me many false explanations to á
justify a wrong action."
"When a boy who was drunk came into my room and misbehaved in the á
presence of my boyfriend."
When my brother was held up and robbed.
"When I was beaten up by thieves on behalf of some friends of mine á
as they thought that I had a lot of money and would not part á
with a few coins for their drinks."
"Some people were sitting outside and saying things which were not á
really true."
"An old woman was violently thrown down the stairs of the tube by á
a group of louts."
"When my sister came home late one day and thus disobeyed my á
parents."
"When I miss the train and I am late, and I have to wait half an á
hour for the next one."
"I was angry when my sister began to talk nonsense and to laugh at á
the way I swept the room.  My anger grew (I tried to control á
myself).  After telling her to leave me alone, I vented my anger á
on her as she did not obey me."
When I was subjected to a very nasty joke by a group of friends.
"I was living in a flat where things did not go very well for me.  á
Finally, they threw me out and this prejudiced people I esteem a á
lot."
"When you kill yourself with work and see the number of slakers á
wandering around, doing nothing."
"When I discovered that my girlfriend was going around with á
another boy."
A typical family argument.
"When a kid dropped my father's radio cassette player, which he á
had just repaired."
"During a trivial (friendly) discussion, one of the participants á
made an intervention which made me feel uncomfortable."
"I was given an exam which I thought did not measure at all my á
ability or my knowledge of the subject."
"When people without my permission pry in my belongings and take á
things out of it."
"When my father addressed me directly and maliciously, thus á
including me in the ""family war""."
"Someone told me that he would stay at my home for one night. á
Therefore I made big efforts to make everything ok (food). One day á
before he cancelled the appointment because he had to go to á
church with his parents."
"When a boy, who was drunk, insulted me in front of a crowd.  I á
was stopped from punching him for it."
"Out on a weekend with a group of people, everybody felt irritated á
because at night the music didn't stop in time. And at breakfast á
my boyfriend ran away because we didn't agree with him. I felt á
angry."
"When someone does not listen to me after having asked me to á
repeat what I said. This happened more than one time with the á
same person."
"I had gone on a vacation and my mother left home without leaving á
me any thing - money to come back to school."
"My father called me (behind my mother's back) and told me that my á
mother disapproved my behavior in the weekend. However, he didn't á
tell me the details and left me with unanswered questions."
"I had worked very hard during my vacations to raise some money á
for a few major items (e.g a radio).  but when I arrived at the á
inter-city bus terminal, my hard earned money had been stolen á
from me."
"When a discussion resulted in an insult, which in my opinion, was á
not justified."
"My girlfriend one day went out and promised to be back at 6.00 pm á
however she first arrived at 10.00 pm, without a message (we had á
to go out that evening)."
"A few monthe ago, when my brother's wife told me that I had bad á
manners.  To make matters worse she did not let me use their á
telephone as she only allowed people of her own tribe."
"I worked together with another student on a computer-assignment. á
She didn't do her best and didn't prepare herself for it. She á
expected me to explain it to her."
"I made an appointment with a friend to drink coffee togehter. á
However, for the third time in that week she arrived an hour too á
late."
"When my father banned me from going to his sister's home due to á
some misunderstanding between the two."
"When our cat was killed in a car-accident I was very angry at the á
driver of the car because he didn't take enough care."
"I was in love with a very beautiful girl and when I went back for á
my holidays I found her wth another guy who she said was just a á
friend.  Later I found them together and was convinced that there á
was something fishy."
"My boyfriend told me that I had very high demands towards him. In á
my opinion this was wrong."
"I was very angry at my father when he didn't give me as much á
money as my brother to use for studying. Once again my brother á
was better off then me."
"When I learnt that my younger sister had been expelled from á
secondary school because she was pregnant.  That was the second á
time that this happened in the family - the first time it had á
been my elder sister."
"We had to move to a very different city because the company where á
my father worked also moved to that place. It was very difficult á
for me to make new friends than."
"When I got the feeling that I had to do all the housekeeping á
while my boyfriend didn't do anything. This happened in a period á
of exams when I had to study very hard."
"When I was accused of having planned my friend's outing at á
secondary school (boarding) as we were not allowed to go out."
"I felt anger when at the end of a telephone call, a good friend á
told me that she would go to travel next year with another good á
friend. We couldn't talk this out."
"When my girlfriend left me to go out with another guy, even á
though she knew that she was wrong."
"One night we, all the family members, were sitting in the front á
corridor of the house when a gentleman looking person came in.  á
He was my father's client and he had come to bribe my father in á
connection with the proceeding case.  At my father's refu"
"In a confrontation with a person, he provoked me several times á
till I reacted in an angry way.  Fortunately there were no á
disastrous consequences."
"A few weeks back, as I was in a hurry to leave the house, I left á
some of my things lying around.  This is something I never do. My á
uncle,who lives with us, as we live in a joint family, remarked that á
we were always doing things like  this.  This rea"
"I felt angry when I saw on T.V the last slaughter of negroes in á
South Africa."
"I had an argument with my mother because I criticized the rules á
she imposes at home, which are too rigid and arbitrary for me."
When I get home late my father scolds me and this makes me angry.
"When I was told that a boy did not want to be my friend without á
any apparent reason."
"When my brother got very low marks in the exams, I was very angry. á
I put my studies aside to help him, as every time my brother does  á
badly at school, my family members blame me as well.á
á
"
Once I saw some children hunting a cat to death.
"My family told me to leave if I was not willing to accept the á
conditions they imposed on me."
"[ It irritates me when people talk about me behind my back.  I    á
prefer people to tell me what they have to, on my face instead á
of talking behind my back.]"
"When a very close friend with whom I have a very intimate and á
bodily relationship (he had a girlfriend) started to avoid me and á
didn't want to talk to me any more."
"We hitch hiked our way back from a town rather drunk.  We were á
dropped in another town which was unknown to us.  I needed to á
urinate, so I did it on a wall which turned out to belong to the á
military headquarters.  They arrested me and made me pay a "
"I experienced anger most recently when I had committed a sin á
which I had gone a week and a half without doing. I had made a á
vow to God and had blown it. Now I had to start all over."
When I first saw a person begging.
"When a person whom I had invited did not come on the appointed á
day and time."
"A class-mate urged me to carry out a particular protest along á
with him, and when the time came this fellow drew back while I á
had to face the situation."
"I had made an appointment with three friends. We had to go out á
together. When I arrived at the place, the other persons weren't á
there. I became very angry because I thought they were gone á
without me. That, however, didn't appear to be the case."
[ When I do not get any co-operation from my friends/partners.]
"A friend told me it would be better for me not to be on familiar á
terms with another friend, although, in my opinion he had no á
reason to say such things. He only said so hoping that I á
would search support from him (that, however, was not necessary)."
"When my room-mate locked up the keys of my room in our room after á
I had told her that I was  only in the bathroom having a shower. á
 She left and I had to do without supper."
"When being made look a fool by the teacher in front of the class á
during a turn."
"When, after having cleaned up the kitchen, two hours later I saw á
that there was a big mess. It irritated me very much."
When someone I trusted very much, disappointed me.
At home when they lost three pieces of my puzzle.
"When I was accused by my brother of having stolen a 5 kwatcha á
note from my mother's bag.  I was beaten up for this, the money á
was found later."
"When I was mistakenly accused of being a thief when I accidently á
gave a fake coin at a counter.  I realized this before I handed á
over the coin, but the man called me a thief and called a á
witness."
"When a cousin of mine took my bottle of T.B tablets, put water in á
it and threw it in the dust-bin."
"When I found out that my sister had been playing with my á
confidential things which she had taken from my hand-bag."
"When I heard that my girlfriend was talking behind my back and á
looking down on me."
When my sister broke my china tea set.
"When my room-mate locked me out deliberately, before an exam due á
at 1400 hours."
When a friend of mine was trying to make a fool out of me.
"When my friends tried to discriminate against my friendship with á
certain other friends which they thought was improper."
When I got a low grade in an administration course.
"One of my colleagues accused me of having stolen his iron and I á
was sure that I had done no such thing."
"I told my friend something confidential which was supposed to á
remain between the two of us.  The next thing that happened was á
that a girl who is not even close to us came laughing and askad á
me to tell her about it.  I was very angry with my friend a"
"I was badly beaten up by one of my friends during a wedding á
party."
"When I was victimized for running away with a girl who was á
somebody else's wife and niece at the same time.  I was very á
angry over this issue because I was told to pay him money after á
having been punished for it. "
"I was asked to stop studying economics, a field which interested á
me, by my employers."
"When a friend tried to back bite me on false grounds.  This made á
me wonder if he was a really a good friend."
"When an argument with a friend of mine over our behaviour towards á
another friend turned into a quarrel.   I lost my temper and nearly á
knocked him out."
"When I was accused of having refused to do some hostel work while á
I was at school.  Actually I had not been allocated any work."
"When a person the same age as me insisted that I call him á
""Mister"".  I refused to succumb, but he persisted and I got angry á
as he had belittled me."
"When my father did not get back from Chipata on time, he was thus á
holding back progress as everything depended on him.  I felt á
angry over his actions."
"A certain friend tried to push me off a seat in a very violent á
way for no apparent reason.  It may be that he was excited about á
something."
"One day in a clinic, the father of a child came in and assaulted á
a colleague for something that she had not done deliberately."
"When my aunt scolded me for something I was not responsible for.  á
A boy had come to our gate asking for me, my aunt went out to see á
him.  I had neither met nor known the boy."
"When I was in form 3, my aunts lied to my daddy telling him that á
I had told them that I was pregnant.  My daddy  told my mother á
and she asked me if it was true.  I was very angry with my aunts."
"When I discovered that the people I trusted most were talking á
behind my back."
"When my daughter began staying away from classes - at the age of á
nine only."
"This happened recently, I  was in the dining hall and one of my á
friends with whom I was eating called me a fool."
"When a friend told me that my education had nothing to do with á
our discussion.  This friend has failed the 7th grade, what made á
me angry was that I had not used my education to argue."
I reachad home to find that my baby had not been bathed and fed.
"I was annoyed this particular day as it seemad that the odds were á
not in my favour.  My grandfather added fuel to the fire, when I  á
had an important appointment so I unleashed my anger on him."
When somebody stole my brother's disco machine.
"When the dean of UNZA asked me to vacate a big flat I was á
occupying and take up a smaller one as I was becoming a full time á
student at UNZA."
"I went to the dining hall and found that the cooks were cleaning á
the plates and there was no food for me, and the blue birds  á
(security guards) were busy eating the food that was supposed to á
be for me."
"I was annoyed when a person higher up asked me why a particular á
job was not done, it was not my job to do it.  "
When someone chased me from his house.
"I had gone home for a week-end and when I came back I found that á
my clothes and my bedding had been stolen."
When I was mistreated by my step-mother.
"When my brother did not send me the transport money to resume      á
my studies in time at UNZA."
My trouser's zipper was open when I was at a public wedding.
"When a friend and me played a joke on our boyfriends.  Her á
boyfriend came up and accused me of having planned the whole á
thing and said that I did not deserve my boyfriend.  He á
embarassed me in front of a crowd."
"I entrusted a friend with the delivery of some money to my á
father, however he misused the money."
"The juniors in our dormitory at school started to complain and á
make a lot of noise about the duties assigned to them by the á
prefect who was my class-mate and was very cool and dull."
"When I travelled all the way to my former school to collect my á
certificate, only to be told that I owed them some money, I knew á
nothing about this."
"The comrade staying next doors insulted me for what he called  á
the misuse of his iron.  He called me stupid, self centered etc.  á
I wanted to punch him but instead went for a walk to the mining á
school to cool off."
"My room-mate locked up our room without specifying where I would á
find the keys.  I had to spend several hours in my other friend's á
room."
"This was when I found out that a cousin of mine had taken away my á
trousers without my consent."
"I peeped into Maurine's bedroom and saw two people - Maurine anbd á
my step-dad.  I thought, "" Why did she break her promises ? Why á
had she invited me ? Why do old men go for young girls ? """
"My mother and I had an argument over buying some clothes for me.  á
She did not accept the fact that I did not like the same things á
as her, and we ended up shouting at each other."
""" I have been hearing rumours that you have not been allowing á
people in your room,"" he said.  This sentence really shot my á
heart.  I failed to find the right words, instead I walked away á
without uttering a word."
"In 1982, I was annoyed at an uncle who was drunk and was beating á
up his old father.  He claimed that the father was responsible á
for his guardian's failure."
"I get angry with my brothers and sisters when they do something á
that I do not like.  They know this and still do it so as to á
tease me."
When I was locked out of my room by my room-mate's friend.
"I had applied for a job and they had assured me that the exams á
would take place a few months later.  A week later I went to á
obtain some more information and they told me that the exams had á
already taken place."
"I was with my family and we found some abandoned puppies.  I á
wanted to help them but everyone said no.  We then left."
When a thief broke into my house and stole some valuable goods.
[ No description.]
"I felt very angry when a mishanga seller robbed me of the á
transport money I had to go to school."
"When I saw parents punishing their little child for something he á
had not done.  In my opinion, even if he had done it he should á
not have been punished for it."
"When I learned that several people had died in the street due to  á
the cold weather."
When my wife told me that the refrigerator had stopped working.
When I saw a car run over a child, out of carelessness.
"My parents were having a typical family argument.  I came in and á
saw the scene and became angry."
Being made to look like a fool by a girl.
"A certain person started to say dreadful things very calmly, I á
felt hurt and disgusted."
"When I got home I found that the electrical supply had been á
disconnected despite my having paid ZESCO the full bill a few  á
days earlier."
When I was accused of something I had not done.
"When I was the target of a great many insults and completely á
unfair accusations of a large group of people."
When my colleague spat on my face after a quarrel.
"My father began to say incoherant things concerning my brother's and á
my own behaviour towards him.  His biased (authoritarian) and á
ridiculous point of view made us angry."
"When I knew that they would not give me a transfer from one á
university to another.  I began to insult the educatioon á
authorities and the government, I ended up at the door."
When I was insulted by a fellow student.
"When I had an argument with my best friend and I thought that I á
was right and she was not."
"One day I had an appointment with my boyfriend which I had á
objected to in the begining, however he visited me and convinced á
me to come.  The day of the appointment; I had to wait for him á
for over an hour."
When people harrass me I feel oppressed by their behavior.
"My mother read a letter that a friend of mine had written to me á
telling me how she had got drunk the last time."
"Seeing for the first time pictures about the so called á
""treatment"" of Jewish people in Nazi-Germany during World War II."
"When my aunt told me angrily that I was a good-for-nothing and á
she was fed up with my behaviour."
"A teacher at my former secondary school forced my darling to á
marry him.  The girl tried to refuse but her parents would not á
leave her alone."
"They wanted me to pay for a ticket twice because they said that á
the one I had was out of date."
"A friend of mine played a joke on another friend over the á
telephone.  This friend, crying, called me and I got very angry á
and made the other person apologize."
"My little niece, who is very talkative, suddenly became very á
naughty and began wetting her pants.  She did it one afternoon."
"When I found one of my new pullovers wrinkled inside the á
wardrobe.  My brother had done it."
"When my dress and a few other things were stolen from my á
wardrobe."
"When my father made my mother go through really terrible á
situations, I felt furious, impotent, nervous, upset, ........"
"When an English teacher unfairly made me repeat a semester which á
I thought I had passed.  I had to ask my parents for some more á
money to carry on studying."
"My sister came back home and reproached me for not having tidied á
up the house, although I had been working all morning and she had á
done nothing."
"My parents scolded me a lot for something I had not done.  It was á
my sister who had done it."
"At boarding school someone put a lot of tiny thorns on my bed.  á
When I complained everybody began teasing me and laughing at my á
inability to find out my enemies.  I lost my temper."
"When the university withdrew the accomodation that it had given á
me."
"When I got to know about the reaction of a friend of mine in a á
certain situation.  I had not expected him to react that way."
When I could not reason my friend, it angered me.
"[ One day I arrived home rather tired and found the house..... In á
addition I was asked many questions which I did not want to á
answer.]"
"My mother told me that I could not go to the mountains.  Despite á
my age, as long as I am in her house I must do what she says."
"I had planned to go to town with my friend at 1500 hours but she á
went for the registration and I waited for a good 1 and a 1/2 hours.  It á
was vital for me to go to town but I could not as it was she who á
had the money.  Finally I borrowed some money "
"I gave some personal information to a friend of mine, and he told á
it to some others who were implicated in the affair."
"I sent a book to a friend of mine.  The book meant a lot to me á
and he lost it."
When someone took my pen away.
My parents did not let me go on holidays with my friends.
"When I saw my younger sister being bothered by a boy she did not á
know."
"My sister and I were fighting as usual. She's older tham I am, á
bigger built and stronger I couldn't win in a physical battle and á
in a verbal battle I couldn't seem to get through to her to á
really hurt her."
"Friend (male) hinted that my talking to other men at a pub was á
immoral. He implied that I should remain only with my boyfriend á
the entire evening."
"Arriving home from work after a long and tiring day to find no á
dinner prepared as I had expected."
"After a long trip in my dad's van without incident I stopped to á
fill the tank with gas and dented the side of the van against the á
pole. Then my cars electrical system would not work when I tried á
to drive home from his house."
"Someone who was speeding was forced to slow down when I pulled á
out onto the road and proceeded to abuse me at the next set of á
traffic lights."
At work being shifted to another area.
"A time when, as part of my work, I was sent out actually sort of á
volunteered to run an errand for someone who had no authority to á
send me out and the address was very far especially on foot and á
turned out to be incorrect too. The whole trip was a wa"
"I visited a special education school. The headmaster applied a á
policy of strict positive - negative reinforcement to the á
children involved. Children who measured up to his standards were á
made a fuss of - children who didn't were ignored."
"A month ago when one of my fellow workers got a promotion over á
me. It was just a small promotion but recognition was involved."
"Once a person in authority (school teacher) was telling blatant á
lies about me and the headmistress would not let me defend á
myself. She was also telling lies about other members of my á
family."
"When my brother-in-law's brother stole my clothes when my á
brother-in-law and I had gone to cut wood for the fire."
"I can't remember being truly angry. Usually it's just á
disappointment that I feel. One situation would be with my á
brother. He and I used to be close but now he seems to be á
avoiding me."
"This summer I got into a fight with one of our patrons (at a á
theatre). He hit me and I hit him and her friend, he hit my friend á
and we all hit eachother."
"I was playing in a football tournament and saw the rules openly á
disregarded."
"Physically fighting with my girlfriend because she just walked á
out of a room of my friends and had pushed and cursed at me when á
I went to find her."
Landlord putting up rents sneakly and slimily.
When a close friend did not write.
"When a close friend failed to live up to the expectations I had á
of him - thereby causing pain to his spouse. I believe that my á
anger was probably a reaction of fear that I wouldn't be able to á
live up to my own expectations."
"Deliberately provoked by someone close. Angered by the á
deliberation not the provocation."
"While I was away for the weekend some friends went into my room á
and played my very expensive stereo without asking me or my á
roommate."
"When bicycling along, a courier van started to tail me very close á
- I sped up and moved over and he just did the same. I reacted á
violently, much physical responding in the dangerous situation."
"That a friend had been badly beaten and stabbed many times and á
the person that did it got away without any punishment from the á
law."
"I bought a new bed for my apt. and it squeaks when you move on á
it. I tried to fix it but could not."
"At school teacher for not allowing us to go out on New Year's Eve á
when on a class trip overseas."
"In arguments with a close friend or relative where my point of á
view is completely disregarded."
"When someone threw a firecracker into my room at 7:00 am in the á
morning."
"Came back from surfing to find car broken into and gear and money á
stolen."
"Stopped at a Fast Food shop with friends and a few locals wanted á
to fight us for no apparent reason. They hit and picked on one of á
my friends."
"I was supposed to meet my girlfriend at a pre-arranged place but á
it took me an hour to find her."
As in sadness (A), relating to this slaghter of fur-seals.
"When someone ignores what I am saying or doesn't let me have my á
point of view and they monopolise a conversation."
"When I found out that my good friend and roommate did not pay the á
phone bill and electric bill like he promised and let me down."
"My best friend at school told lies about me to a boy I was seeing á
and went out with him herself."
"When the person I'm having the affair with won't talk to me in á
public."
"I ""cooked"" the engine in my father's car - it was actually his á
fault because he hadn't fixed the temperature gauge or told me. á
When I finally got home I was absolutely screamed at and the á
anger I experienced was over the injustice of it all plus the"
When someone told a secret I told them not to tell.
"When people would tell me that my ex-girlfriend was playing á
around on me."
When the bus driver failed to stop and pick me up at a bus stop.
"My parents didn't allow me to go to a social function that all my á
friends were attending."
"My peers didn't want me to meet someone during rush for fear that á
I would give her a bad outlook on our Sororoty house. I shouldn't á
have seen this, but they blew and I did."
NO RESPONSE.
"I had worked long and hard on a project when a friend á
inadvertantly destroyed it. I could not forgive him for a long á
time. And at times still get angry at him."
"Towards wife's laziness in not performing her usual duties á
because of television watching."
"When fired unjustly from a job as casual bar-person. Charged with á
giving away free drinks. Not done so and had witnesses to prove á
it - both patrons and bar staff. Other staff were supportive."
I went out dancing and found my boyfriend kissing another girl.
In a hurry to get to lectures and the car would not start.
"My boyfriend promised to take me to see a game of tennis and rang á
saying he was going to the pub with some of his friends instead."
"I had been searching for housing for Fall at UCB and I was á
finally offered a place - then an ordeal followed, first I á
accepted then refused - related to my parents judgment (they're á
paying for me). Turns out that I was so upset at what my Dad said á"
"When at very short notice I agreed to work in place of a friend á
who was sick, and owner of the restaurant refused to allow me a á
drink later in the evening (which is usually always available for á
workers), did not thank me, and was generally indiffere"
"When someone tried to rape one of my best friends and he claimed á
it was her fault. He the hassled her, claimed she was loose, and á
threatened to sue her."
"When during a social evening with my father, brother, sister, á
close friend and my father's 2nd wife - I had an argument with my á
father, who abused my friend who was sticking up for me."
"When a teacher though pretending to be a highly cultivated á
teacher and a man, slapped a classmate of mine in the face quite á
undeservedly."
"One of my friends kept criticizing me about everything I did. I á
thought she was kidding, but later I found out that she was á
serious."
"I took part in a football match. The referee was extremely á
partial to the opposite team. This stirred up my discontent and á
anger."
"I typed up a letter for this physician at work. She didn't care á
for my style, even though she was not using correct English. I á
told her it was her letter and we would do it her way."
"A nuisance used to live in our flat a month ago. I experienced á
this feeling when I tried to chase her out."
"I faced this feeling when I realized I wasn't admitted to the á
institute in the first classifying, in spite of the high mark I á
had got at the entrance examination.á
"
"My boyfriend breaking up with me about 7 months after I had an á
abortion. Just the fact that he was ignoring me and continued to á
do so."
"That was what I felt with a teacher who put down quite unreal á
marks."
"I felt angry when I failed in an exam about which I knew quite a á
few things and I did not deserve to be plucked."
"When I was faced with writing an essay and I didn't want to do it á
I was angry that I had to write an essay and angry at myself for á
not having the time to write a good essay."
"I felt anger at my last exam, I felt angry with our teacher, á
because he did not rate me objectively and I failed."
"When my son omits to carry out certain duties at home that he á
knows needs doing."
When my bosom friend tried to lie to me.
"It was necessary to organise a competition in connection with a á
celebration. Everyone was to be present at that event. It turned á
out that there was no audience at all because everyone had á
pretended to be very intelligent and no one had come. I got á"
When my roommate's moped was stolen I was very angry.
"I feel angry at people's indifference at our ability to be á
present at an event and to stay partial to what happens."
"When on a car journey a fellow student crossed our way with his á
own car and we had to bump into a roadside trunk."
"We are repainting rooms in my house. My mother started to enact á
plans to paint my room without consulting me."
"I confronted with this feeling at the Institute quite recently, á
the pedology lecturer was the cause."
"I was rushing home from school because there was a 49er game that á
night. I got into a non-injury accident, which was all my fault, á
but destroyed the front of my car. The truck I hit was undamaged."
"I suffered from a gynaecological illness. I was quite displeased á
to hear that my roommates had talked about it and they had á
misrepresented the truth. I felt deeply hurt when I learned that á
it was done by a ""good"" acquaintance of mine."
"My grandmother's brother had taken active part in the resistance á
movement. He had been in prison many times and there he lost his á
health. He became an invalid. When we phoned to First Aid the á
nurse on duty behaved quite unkindly when she understood "
"When my roommate's boyfriend assaulted me. He was threatening me, á
calling me names and pushing me around."
"Because I am the Captain of a basketball team I usually organise á
a roster system so that everyone in the team can have a turn at á
doing either a duty or a ref. A lot of the time the girls can't á
be bothered or just forget - I usually have to fill in."
"Brother continually interupting while I was talking on the á
telephone."
"Someone in my family (my brother I suspected) ate a bun which I á
had made for myself. It was during a long telephone call after I á
had just made it and put it in the oven warming drawer."
My anger is with men, their inability to be human (not all men).
When some friends betrayed my friendship.
"When a man, a stranger to me, personally insulted a close woman á
friend of mine in public."
"Argument with roommate over a lock he had put on kitchen cupboard á
without telling anyone."
"(1) My father died. (2) My natural father contacted me a year á
after my father died and this angered me more as I thought he á
should be dead and not my father."
"When present boyfriend's mother approached my parents and self - á
to leave her son alone - as she did not want me for a future á
daughter-in-law."
"When a friend carelessly broke and object in my parent's house á
and did not apologize, or pay, or anything."
Never really had the experience just yet - N/A.
"The breakup of a relationship. After the event I was upset/sad á
then angry maybe 2/3 weeks later."
"I received a poor grade on a midterm even though I got all the á
right answers and knew the material. I went to the TA to try to á
raise my grade and he wouldn't do it."
"I live by myself and a few weeks ago was woke by a man on the end á
of my bed coming up my bed at me. I was really angry, told him to á
get out. He was surprised, hesitated; I started to move towards á
him and he backed off - kept telling him - loudly, bu"
"A co-worker and I had to rush a project. I was only working there á
for one month and he for some years. Instead of letting me know á
that he wanted to do the project himself, he went to the á
superviser and let the superviser tell me to let the co-worker"
"This situation keeps occurring - when my little sister disagrees á
with me or vice-versa. We have very similar temperaments and I á
always end up feeling angry at her and myself for fighting so á
much over unimportant trivial matters."
"My partner without discussing with me the situation decided it á
was time for us to have a break and went ahead and arranged his á
own life for the next 6-12 months, then told me the day before it á
was about to happen having been tolerant and friendly fo"
"I had just seen my pseudo-girlfriend and our conversation angered á
me greatly."
"When my husband got picked up in our new car for drunken driving. á
We had made a pact the other would not drink and so therefore á
would be the driver for the evening etc. I was not present at the á
time."
"A shop in Downtown wouldn't accept my Visa Card - before December á
last year."
"While studying chemistry with a friend we became angry with á
eachother because we were both fed up."
"A friend visited and made comments that my house/garden were not á
as neat/tidy as in the past. I'd not seen her a year - She á
implied I'd gone to the pack (I'd only been working full time, á
and taking 3 University exams part time)."
"I was really pissed when the Russians boycotted the '84 Olympics. á
I had anger towards them and Jimmy Crter. I was very anxious to á
see it."
"In a sociology class I felt very angry towards some members of á
society for exploiting the Polynesian people, dawn raids by á
Police (Martin Luther King, Blacks in S.A.). But this was just a á
reflection of my own shortcomings."
"When my boyfriend wouldn't dance with me on my graduation night á
because he thought I could dance with my friends who were á
friendly."
"When talking with my sister, she often ventilates prejudices, á
which my father also adheres."
"While playing indoor-hockey, there always is an older man who á
frequently and intentionally plays the ball out of the field. In á
my opinion this is very childish, because we play for fun only."
"The government's announcement of the withdrawal of the student á
allowances in 1984."
"My younger brother destroyed and gave away some of the books that á
I had intended to keep for as long as possible."
When my mother quarrelled with my aunt over me.
"I was really angry when the President general of UNZASU was á
arrested by policemen."
"In 1983 a sadist provoked my sister in my presence.  He tried á
to force my sister into accompanying him to his place, but my á
sister did not agree and so she was kicked and she fell down.  á
There was a fight."
"[ When some difference of opinion occurs in a silly situation.]  á
"
"When a pick-pocket robbed me of my money (K20) while I  was á
buying bathing soap."
"I suffer from a disease of my muscles. Therefore, I am only able á
to attend lectures for half a day. So, sometimes I miss á
obligatory lectures. However, the teachers do not take into á
account my disease, and punish me with detention work, resulting in "
When my mother scolded me for coming home late, i.e after 7 P.M.
"I once failed a test miserably and my friend did very well and á
someone made a nasty comment while comparing me to my friend."
"When my boyfriend told me that it would be difficult for him to á
marry me."
"Meddlesomeness of my mother about the way I live. She thinks I am á
to free in my behavior for instance when a boyfriend stays the á
night."
"My parents thought that I didn't do my best to pass the final á
examination (secondary school). When I achieved a good grade they á
said nothing, but if I had had a bad grade they would have become á
very angry."
"My girlfriend does practice and therefore leaves me alone at á
night and in the weekend. In addition, she is very busy doing á
several things. So we don't see each other often."
Someone borrowed my textbook and deliberately did not return it.
"Last year I had a friend visiting me for several days. The only á
thing he did was sleeping, drinking, taking pills and thinking á
only about himself."
My bicycle was demolished.
Bad food in the students' dining hall.
"My father promised me a bicycle for my birthday. Just before my á
birthday he forgot he promised this to me."
"When a friend who comes visiting me unexpectedly asks for coffee á
and I refuse to give him this."
Someone messing up the room we share.
"I am one of four directors of a company. We inherited land held á
by our family - ours is the 5th generation. A ""democratic"" á
decision was made to stap-bank an area of mangroves."
"When I arranged our holiday in Paris, and my girlfriend raised á
criticisms all the time."
"My older brother who gives me unwanted advices about problems in á
my relationship with my girlfriend."
"Somebody was blaming me of a story which was not real and not á
true."
Being hooted at when I was learning to drive.
A friend started to shout at me. He called me an old frump.
"When someone took my things without having asked for my á
permission."
"I was in the library of medical psychology and walked into the á
wrong direction. A man who came out of a room threated me very á
denigrating and I became very angry in a resisting manner."
"When I was at an official meeting I asked a question to a person. á
His response was not directed at me but at the chairman."
"When my room-mate was making noise deliberately, by playing a á
flute early in the morning while I was trying to study."
"There was a lot of irritation between me and a person who lives á
in the same house where I live. Suddenly it became too much for me and I á
accused him of several things."
"I had a quarrel with my father, because I was of the opinion that á
he decided in an authoritarian way which TV program we should á
watch. I became very angry and started throwing things through á
the room."
When a few girls were talking rubbish about me.
"When some seniors tried to scold and insult some juniors on á
account of what the juniors were supposed to have said at á
secondary school."
"When our government decided to withdraw student allowances as it á
was one of the conditions imposed by the IMF. á
"
Insulted by the class leader.
"After a hard day at the university I also had to make dinner that á
evening. It failed because of a frying pan which broke."
"When I heard that an acquaintance of mine was spreading rumours á
about my affair with a close friend."
"I am usually angry at myself. This happens often. For instace á
when I want to pet without falling in love and it soon proves á
that I have fallen in love with him."
The stories about the way my grandmother treated my mother.
"When the paramilitary was sent to the UNZA and it started using á
tear gas and started intimidating the students without any á
provocation."
"I work at a petrol station. When there is a foreigner who wants á
petrol my collegues treat him very impolite."
"In form three we were taking our mock exams and someone else (a á
friend) was making noise when the examinateur picked on me and á
said that he would tear up my answer sheet.  I got very angry á
with the girls involved."
"During military service a superior reproached me unjustly. This á
led to friction in a lot of situations."
"When my father failed to send me transport money after the á
closure of the school."
"A friend came to visit me late one night. He promised to stay á
only a quarter of an hour, but he stayed 5 hours !! He didn't á
leave and I was very angry."
Being treated unfairly and being hurt by someone I love.
"A friend doesn't let me study when I want to. She doesn't feel I á
need to study and doesn't understand how important studying is to á
me. I get very angry with her."
When, late at night, I discovered that they had stolen my bike.
"I caught a ""peeping tom"" at my window when I was getting á
undressed."
"I had an appointment with someone at a certain time. The other á
person didn't appear."
"I had to unscrew something on my car. I didn't succeed after two á
afternoons of trying. A feeling of anger built up itself."
"I am currently taking CS 50P. I had to finish a couple of á
assignments but I was hindered because I could not get a passing á
score on my program."
"When my mother told things to my sister, which I told my mother á
in confindence."
"During a dance someone slashed my tires and dumped paint on my á
car. I had four other friends with me that I drove and á
furthermore it was raining."
"A good friend deceived me. Because of that little quarrel our á
relationship finished, mainly because she was not honest. I was á
very angry about that."
"When someone accuses me without reason and is not willing to á
listen to me."
I was called racial slurs behind my back.
At having an argument with a stranger, in the street.
"A man kept a seat taken by putting his coat on it after a while á
the chair was still empty, I asked him if I could use the chair, á
he didn't agree for the chair was for his coat."
"When I found out my cousin had been killed. I was angry at the á
world, and her murderer who was her ex-boyfriend. It was the worst á
and most hateful day of my life."
"In a discussion the leader wanted to stop because she was of the á
opinion that we were not involved and she misjudged our reactions á
as negative. We however only posed several questions which she á
couldn't answer."
"Most recently when the chairman at the New Zeeland Rugby Union á
announced that the All Blacks' would accept the invitation of á
South Africa to play rugby in that country."
"I came home one day and discovered that my sister had borrowed my á
car and had gotten into an accident with it. My entire front á
bumper was destroyed."
"When my mother rejected my boyfriend and made unfair judgements á
on him."
"I live with my sister now and sometimes she angers me especially á
when she thinks I don't keep the apt. clean enough."
"I lent a text-book to a person I did not know very well, they á
lost the text-book and gave me no compensation."
"When my flatmate put me down because she ""thought"" she was better á
than me, or she felt she was."
"Last semester when I dated a girl whom I've known for almost a á
year. However one night she said she wanted us to be ""just á
friends"". I confided this to a friend Jim I was really suffering. á
A month or two later he broke up with his old girlfriend and "
When my girlfriend of two years told me it was all over.
Once again my parents distroyed a relationship.
"The landlord had selected a new lodger on her own, while we used á
to do that it was not what she had done, but how she did it that á
made me angry."
"My mother and my sister carried on picking at me all day long for á
no reason at all and I ended up getting angry."
"When anybody wants to make me feel guilty. For example: I should á
do something for my mother, but things didn't go as she hoped. á
Then she threatens: I'll do it myself."
Tripped on a busy street.
When the coach of our team degraded me to the second team.
"A quarrel with my mother because I thought she said very á
unreasonable things about me, that hit me strongly."
Seeing this badly made questionnaire.
"When my father took away my cherised diaries to burn them (I was á
also very sad) ""Oh, how I hated him""."
"I was sleeping nicely until in the middle of the night when I became á
awake because a friend called me for some (in my opinion) á
nonsens reason."
"People having a football match outside the window during the á
lecture."
"I invited two friends. We should go out together. Those two girls á
kept talking about boys, chatting up etc. I bacame sick of it."
A father helping his kid to fight other kids.
"When my friends left without waiting for me, after we had arranged á
to go out together."
"I am a teacher in arts and crafts (boys from 15-16 years). for á
them it is obligatory and they dislike it. They tease me. When one of á
them cut up some material I flared up."
"My roommate leaving my drawers in a mess after plowing thourgh á
them looking for something."
"Someone who always took care for the key of the sportshall stayed á
away without letting us know. Next time he did as if nothing had á
happened."
"If they force me to eat something I don't like. For example, my á
parents always twaddle and whine, when I don't eat all the food."
"My sister borrowed some LP records for a party. She had left them á
in the car on curatao. Due to the heat they were crooked, so I á
couldn't play them again."
"A friend of mine came to visit and stayed with my roommate and me. á
My roommate and she became good friends. After she left, he á
didn't talk too highly of her."
"We lived with 3 persons in the loft of a house. It often occurred á
that other persons again and again climbed the stairs with much á
noise. When I was studying I couldn't concentrate and got angry."
"I felt anger at my roommate due to his habit of leaving dirty á
dishes in the sink and generally not cleaning after himself."
"When the Real Madrid football team lost against the inter in the á
U.E.F.A cup."
"An argument among friends in which my opinions on the way to á
spend spare time were disapproved."
"Going to Cowell Hospital and finding out tediously that I had a á
stress fracture. The anger came when the senile doctors found out á
4 weeks later that I had 2 stress fractures in one foot and á
should have had crutches. I was in distinct pain and barely"
One day, when I was a child, my grandmother shut me up in a room.
"I work for a journal. Once the lay-out came to nothing, due to á
thoughtlessness of some colleagues."
Being sexually assulted on a bus.
"I was a prefect at secondary school.  On the sports day I told á
others that I would take down the names of the people who á
misbehaved and after some time I sat down for a brief rest.  á
Suddenly the head prefect came and scolded me in front of others. á"
Being insulted in public.
"I missed the train and had to wait for the next for two hours. á
For this reason I missed an appointment which had been very á
important for me."
The time when someone let the air out of the tyres of my cycle.
Punished by a leader.
"When my room-mates were watching video-tapes and prevented me á
from watching the news.  The first feeling I had was that I was á
being treated unfairly and then came the feeling of anger."
"One day, I discussed a very important question with A.  A á
suddenly declared that he would not accept my position and á
thought that he himself was right.  Moreover, he attacked  á
strongly, not my opinion but me personally."
I saw a report on T.V news on apartheid in South Africa. 
"I was watching TV with a friend. After the first film I wanted to á
watch another film on the same channel. My friend switched over á
to the other cannel without asking me what I wanted."
"I had planned to study for my mid-term exams on a certain day and  á
my room-mate called me to ask me to go out for a stroll.  I tried á
to make an excuse so as not to go out but she refused to listen á
to me and insisted that I go out with her.  I find i"
"My friends promised me that they would definitely call me to tell á
me if they were visiting me or not."
"When I learnt that a friend of mine had talked about me to á
another friend and had said wrong things about my abilities and á
attitudes.  I was very angry."
When someone does something wrong which affects me negatively.
When my mother treats me as a 10-year old boy.
Once my father slapped my mother for a small quarrel.
"I moved to a flat. A friend who had lived there before, had left á
the flat in a terrible mess. I was very angry about that á
sloppiness and impudence."
"When a friend of mine was drawn into a fight because of the á
stupid gang he belonged to. I felt angry with him and his á
friends. They could not think about anything sensible, but would á
fool around without taking into consideration the feelings of á
ot"
"I reached the bus stop and realized that I had forgotten my bus á
pass."
"Finding out about some girls who have been nice to the class á
leader in order to go to the neuropsychology lectures (English á
ones)."
When colliding with my car. I myself was to blame.
"When I was deputy manager during the Summer, certain deputies á
took liberties, more than what was normal."
"A female classmate was always late for meetings which were for á
the homework and not social gatherings.  We were very busy and á
the deadline was close but we had to waste half an hour or an á
hour waiting for her as we could do nothing else then."
"When I was concentrating on my work, my friend disturbed me á
continously.  I asked him to stop but in vain."
Someone drove into my car and then denied that it had happened.
"My car had been towed away by the traffic police because it had á
been wrongly parked.  However the sign had been put up only after á
I had already parked."
I was scolded by my mother for no reason.
"When during Winter the water pipes froze and we did not have any á
water for two days."
"On the TV news I heard that Nicaragua had complained about the á
increasing threat of war with the USA."
Made a statement that other people did not believe.
Quarrel in the family.
"Yesterday I read in the newspaper that a 30 year old woman had á
abused her 2 month old son and had caused his death.  I was very á
angry after reading this as this is not a human act and to abuse á
so fragile a life is not a forgivable sin."
Receiving personal criticisms early in the morning.
"When our religion teacher presented shocking sectarian thoughts á
and doom's day as official teaching."
"Having agreed to share the taxi expenses, three people in the á
back of the car just ran off, leaving the person up front with á
the entire bill."
"The trick was really intolerable.  They hid it, and I was worried á
and restless all day.  When I saw them I really wanted to slap á
each one of them."
"Last week, my organization summoned an executive meeting and one á
of the executive member's pointed out a loop hole in the á
committee's administration.  He could not suggest any á
improvements, so I quarrelled with him."
My roommate being unconsiderate.
"When I am accused of something I have not done, I get unbelievably á
angry."
"[ Whenever I put myself in other's shoes and try to make the á
person happy, comfort him or make friends and I am misunderstood á
and rejected, especially when this person is a family member or a friend.]"
Misunderstood by a close friend for the wrong reason.
"In the student kitchen that we share, somebody drank from my á
juice pot (one litre) so that I only got one glass out of the á
whole pot."
"A member of a religious sect tried to convert me, using really á
evil tricks to persuade me.  After he had left, I was anxious and á
angry for a long time. After the event, I was alone."
"Realizing that a friend had been talked into signing a certain á
contract."
When I missed the tram after having run for it.
[ No response.]
"My father had once again told me that I should be careful and try to á
seek admission to other places also apart from the faculty of á
Social Sciences at the university of Helsinki.  I was not at all á
interested in any other place and had no time to stud"
"When I checked my examination paper and realized that I had been á
careless, thoughtless, lazy and hasty so as to make unnecessary á
mistakes concerning things I know and understand."
"I was at home, filling my tax report.  Nobody had time to help á
me.  I would have liked to do it quickly so that I could go and á
meet a friend of mine who had just returned from hospital.  I got á
angry as both my brother and my father refused to give m"
Heard about someone telling lies about me to my best friend.
Someone talking about me at my back.
"In the holiday cottage of our association, two of my pals came to á
wake me up early one morning by bringing a radio played at the á
highest volume into my room - it was the morning service at its á
loudest."
"Getting a terrible exam mark, which I couldn't understand the á
reason for, and trying to see a lecturer or tutor, but being á
given the runaround."
[ For example, unfair pushing in a bus.]
"I went to a lecture and once again it had been cancelled, this á
was the second time.  One had a negative attitude towards the á
lecturer.á
"
"When I was in F4 I played a basket-ball match against another á
school's team.  One of their team members kicked a team-mate of á
mine so I kicked him back and we had a fight with each other."
"I had left a student newspaper of the Chinese university on the á
table of the library.  It had disappeared when I came back."
Korean judges cheating.
"My parents do not like my friend and told me not to go out with á
him."
"I was accused of having done something, which I hadn't and got á
very angry."
"The outrageous conduct of a relative towards me and those close á
to me.(blaming us and lying)"
When a close relative is treated badly.
"I had a date with my girlfriend, the time and place had not been á
fixed.  I asked her to phone me an hour later as it was midnight á
and I did not want to disturb her family.  I waited several hours á
for her call, she did not call me that night."
Being treated unfairly.
"When my father's new fiancee treats me like a child.  She does á
not trust me and constantly misunderstands me.  I get á
particularly angry when she says nasty things about my boyfriend á
with whom she works."
"The housing council asked the city to cut 40 linden trees so that á
the inhabitants of the lower floors would have a view to the sea."
Being told that I have not got a personality.
Having a fight with a class mate.
A classmate damaged ma iron and tried to hide the damage.
"We were starting a student project, and the teacher we talked to á
was very negative and not very helpful."
"I quarrelled with my brothers (twins) at home on saturday.  One á
of them studies in a private school and the other one is á
repeating his form five.  They do not know what they are doing.  á
They follow every word of their teachers, books and systems.  á"
I get angry when people disbelieve me or misunderstand me.
"Two boys whom I know were telling me, in an indecent manner, how á
they had teased a young and shy girl I know.  They had despised á
her conviction, scorned and touched her.  I got very angry and á
did not try to conceal it and gave it back to them."
"My mother carried on using mental pressure concerning something á
which was serious and a real burden to me."
"A friend suggested in a round-about way that the reason we were á
late for something was because of me, and that I'm often late. I á
know this was partly true, but felt it unjustified that á
particular time and I felt I couldn't do  anything about it á
an"
"When it became clear that a man had used many people sexually á
and psychologically, despite the fact that many people looked up á
to him.  I understood that one could not trust him and I was á
forced to hide this for a while."
"I had a very heavy work load and two colleagues, whom I have á
nothing against, disturbed me by ""terror ringing"", i.e á
continously interrupting me by telephoning."
"I was angry with a friend of mine who behaved in an affected á
manner."
During a fight with my best friend.
"One day I had sunned my favourite shirt and was putting it back á
in the wardrobe when my younger brother snatched it from me and á
wore it.  He had not had a bath and was very dirty.  I scolded him á
but he answered back and locked himself up in a room. "
"I was accused of having drunk a bottle of liquor and then á
refilling with water."
"When my tennis match was interrupted because a kid cycled right á
into the court."
"In the student's union there was someone who took the photocopies á
of two large volumes.  I asked him to let me take a few, he refused á
it for an acceptable reason. "
"Being a spokesman for the union, I got into a quarrel with a á
colleague who had been acting disloyally over a sustained period á
of time."
"A friend of mine ridiculed me, telling me that I would never á
accomplish anything. I felt that he had interfered with my life."
"My sister once stole my mother's money and made her very angry.  á
After this my mother would beat her up for unreasonable reasons.  á
One day my sister lent her book to a friend without telling my á
mother about it.  When my mother learnt this she beat h"
"At my father's treatment of my mother, at his disregard for her, á
and not being committed to her."
"I had a very good friend in secondary school.  The year after our á
graduation I prepared to celebrate her birthday and I called off á
all my appointments.  I got together the other friends and we á
were ready to give the entire day to her.  However this "
"My class leader told me the university won't let all of us go to á
your lectures because we are not All English Class."
When others let me down, fail to keep agreements.
"While having a discussion with my mother, I realized that she á
does not for a moment doubt the justification of her making the á
decisions concerning my life."
"[ I sometimes quarrel with my mother because she blames me, á
though I have not in any way been connected to some events.]"
"I had too much homework and examinations and I did not know how á
to organize my work."
"We were in a disco and the evening was not at all pleasant.  á
Despite my not knowing why, I was angry with my companion.  I let á
him feel my bad humour as I cannot hide my feelings."
"I told my boy friend not to park in a certain place because the á
car would ger towed away - he didn't listen and it was towed away. á
At that stage, our finances were below the poverty line & it á
cost us $10.00 - all the money we had to get us through t"
"My mother had for some time been trying to separate me from a á
good friend who, she thought, was not good company for me.  á
Finally, at breakfast one day, we had an argument and I tried to á
defend my friend."
Had an insulting letter from my father.
"I was disappointed and angry at the bad quality of a documentay á
program on TV.  In my opinion, the topic was important and the á
program should have been made with seriousness and consideration."
"When I came back to my hostel, my bed was full of newspapers and á
dirty clothes.  My room-mate asked me to wash the clothes for him á
as he had no time (this was his responsibility).  The food we á
shared had been eaten up by him (I ate little)."
"When I tried to explain to a plumber, face to face, that the á
toilet was broken and he did not believe it (it had been mended á
ten times)."
"Jealous of my husband's old girlfriend.  We met her with her á
husband and there was a lot of reminiscing."
[ When I was treated unfairly, regardless of my motives or deeds.]
After having quarelled with a relative of mine about politics.
"My elder brother often criticizes my mother's cooking.  Once he á
did it very impolitely and lost his temper.  This made all of us á
very sad.  I was very angry and I scolded him.  He asked me not á
to interfere with what was his buisness."
"When my friend, as usual, forgot the tickets at home for a á
performance.  We missed it."
"My classmate always borrowed my notes and would not return it to á
me on time.  When I had a test she was selfish and irresponsible á
and so delayed my studies."
Insulted for no reason.
"An unjust refree decision at a sports event when I was the team á
leader."
A conflict with a pupil.
When I learned that my brother had spoilt an LP of mine.
"When my boss enrolled in a course to satisfy his own ends - to á
trample on his associates.  I have the misfortune to have one of á
my superiors in my course."
"Found out that someone I knew well has been misunderstanding me á
for 2 years."
"When my father asked me if I was a communist, at the same time he á
made it clear that I should no longer see myself as his daughter."
"When I realized that I was far behind the others in the language á
course and I could no longer catch up with the others."
"I gave tutorial to a student and I found that he was lazy, he did á
not pay attention to what I taught.  He did some easy questions á
wrong deliberately."
"Before the department meeting my friend ate a dish that I had á
prepared for this meeting."
"At a cash desk where I had gone to buy 16 rolls of kitchen paper á
at a reduced price.  After queuing with screaming children; it á
turned out that I had taken two 8 roll packets instead of the one á
16 roll packet to which the rebate applied.  The assist"
When my mother interfered in my life.
"I wanted to borrow lecture notes from a friend and he did not á
lend me them."
"During a football match, the other team was rude and they hurt my á
team members and me.  The coach was prejudiced against us and á
punished us unreasonably.  Later we fought with each other and á
the match had to be cut short."
Exchange of points of view with my sister on a family matter.
"When I was forced to call the telephone company about a bill á
concerning a disconnected phone belonging to my landlord.  The á
bill was four months overdue and in the meanwhile he had been á
using my phone, he seemed to have no intention of having his ow"
"While in the army, I was treated unfairly by my superiors.  I was á
held responsible for a deed of which I was innocent."
[ No response.]
"In a course I thought that I deserved good marks but I only got á
ordinary marks with no justification as to why I was given these á
marks."
Had an argument with my classmate for borrowed books.
When stupid people push me during rush time in the city.
"My cassmate laughed at me when I was being scolded by the á
teacher."
"Being refused to attend the neuropsychology lecture in the á
medical university."
"On the way home from Marstrand I was driving behind my father's á
car.  Another car tried to push in front of my father and he was á
forced to swerve and he thus collided the car with a pillar.  The á
other car drove off without even seeing what had happe"
"When after a lot of provocation my child threw a plate on the á
floor."
When a girl left me.
"Told by some people the class leader only choose his friends (not á
true)."
"When I was studying in the library - preparing for a test, two á
people sitting next to me talked to each other for 20 minutes.  á
There were no other seats so I could not go elsewhere and I did   á
not want to interrupt them, so I could only be angry in "
"When I read about Reagan's tactical decision concerning the á
South African boycott."
"Recently when my sister, who is four years younger than me and á
very spoiled, shouted at my mother for no apparent reason .  The á
heart-broken expression on my mother's face made me feel very á
angry."
Failed to be elected to be a class leader.
"Some noisy guests arrived at the hotel.  I had been slightly á
irritated earlier.  At night when I was trying to sleep they were á
having a party so I went and yelled at them.  I wanted to sleep á
as I had to get up early the next day."
"I had an implicit agreement with my sister about meeting her, á
however she had not understood the situation the same way so she á
did not turn up."
"My fiancee and I were at my parent's place watching TV. There á
were  only two TV-chairs and we were sitting on them when my á
drunken brother came in and rudely chased my fiancee off the á
chair she was sitting on."
"One night I could not practise my violin as my family was á
watching T.V with the lights off, so I wanted to listen to some á
tapes.  It was dark so I asked my brother to bring me a torch, á
however he scolded me.  I was so angry that I slammed my violin "
"Mr C took my drawing pens, without having asked for my permission á
first, and lost them.  He did not tell me about it till I asked á
him and then did not try to find them."
[ After an examine I had been satisfied with.]
Someone told me we are not as good as the All English Class.
"My classmate used her personal relations to get a seat for a á
subject that I wanted also.  I had taken the pains to help him á
apply and I did not get selected.  I did not like this as he had á
not told me the facts earlier, he need not have lied to me."
[ An unfair punishment.]
"A relative of mine had come to see my husband to talk to him á
about a problem concerning his sister and me.  I was angry á
because this relative of mine did not dare to speak to me and á
instead spoke to my husband.  I got to know about it later the á
sa"
"When I found out that the guy I was dating at a particular time á
had a steady relationship going on with someone else for a long á
time."
[ No response.]
[ No response.]
Having gone to school without learning anything, as usual.
"My superior blamed me for some neglects at work in front of á
others.  In fact, the task in question was not supposed to be á
done by me."
"The sports fishermen who catch gulls instead of fish with their hooks. á
  It is often a mistake but it makes me angry."
"I worked with several classmates on a project.  I was very á
anxious about the project while my partners showed no concern  á
and when we had meetings on the project my classmates  did not á
pay any attention.  Some of them read books while the others á
a"
Being insulted by my roommate (she is in the English Class).
Finding out that I was deceived by a friend.
"I had a discussion with my mother concerning my sister's divorce, á
we disagreed strongly."
"I had a date with a friend to see a movie and my friend was late. á
 I waited for a long hour and was very angry."
"A person close to me mistook my good intentions for bad, and á
therefore associated unpleasant traits to me."
"My employer took too many aspirins for a bad back and also drank á
an enormous amount of spirit.  This was dangerous  and he did á
not understand that he had done anything wrong."
"In traffic I often get relatively angry with other drivers. á
Several transgressions make me mad, especially not yielding to á
priority traffic (e.g. coming from the right)."
"When close relatives tried to dissuade me from studying á
Psychology because of its low status."
"I am a school teacher.  One of the classes does not obey me at all, á
keeps on talking, does no work.  One afternoon, everything went á
wrong, and I got exceedingly angry."
"My girlfriend disliked it when I played majong (a game of gambling).  á
I expressed my regrets and when I went to see her she neglected my á
existance.  I was very angry and left in displeasure."
"When I argue with my boyfriend, I feel as though he feels á
superior to me."
Being put down by the class leaders.
"A colleague asked me for some advice and as he did not have á
enough confidence in me he asked a third person."
Saw my unfair report.
"My life-partner, who was drinking more and more, spoke about á
kicking the cat.  He had never done anything of the kind, but I á
knew that he would do so one day, without thinking about it."
When the morning newspaper has not arrived.
"When I told off a computer teacher who did not want to teach me á
beacause of prejudice."
"When my boyfriend sat up half the night playing computer games á
with a friend."
"Being insulted in front of my parents, and they believed other á
people (those insulting me)."
"Before the certificate examination I was very poor in Biology á
(the worst result in my class).  Ever since F.5 it had been á
getting poorer and poorer.  I had tried my best and had spent á
most of my time studying this subject.  Finally my results were á"
"When I did not find the rack used for beating up rugs, in the á
yard."
"My father accused my brother of having bumped his car, and it was á
wrong."
"A drummer who had borrowed my drums destroyed both the drumskin á
and the sticks.  He did not repair them nor did he tell me about á
it."
Falling in love although she is my friend (angry with myself).
"When we were in high school a few guys sometimes provoked a á
friend of mine.  They called her a pig and then grunted.  This á
irritated most of the girls.  Once, one of the girls got angry at á
my friend and said something nasty and this made me terribly"
Something was stolen.
"I had an appointment downtown, and the person in question was á
half an hour late."
Someone played a trick on me.
"When my parents drove me to a nearby place and went home á
immediately instead of waiting a few hours.  They could have á
easily waited."
Bought something bad from the shop and they refused to change it.
[ No response.]
Saw some young people fighting for seats on a bus.
"When I was pointed out as a problem child in primary school and á
my mother took the teacher's point of view."
"My intimate girlfriend told me that her father was opposed to our á
relationship  and had insulted my integrity."
"Some classmates said I did not do enough social work. Therefore I á
was not elected as a ""Tree Good"" student."
"I was coming home in a taxi with a fellow worker of mine.  He was á
criticizing my earlier conduct towards him, which to my mind was á
unfounded.  When I reached home, I ran out of the taxi and á
slammed the door."
[ No response.]
"When, after a week at school, a teacher sent a note home saying á
that my son was inattentive and unable to do his lessons."
Being slandered by friends.
"Physical violence. A friend wouldn't listen to me I repeatedly á
tried to warn him, to no avail. Result: eight people were ""pissed á
off""."
"Angry when our team (small boys) lost the county championship á
football final."
Friends who torture animals.
When friends try to put me down or hurt me.  
"When students in our working group showed no responsibility or á
interest in our work."
When my car suddenly broke down !
Misunderstood deliberately by a close friend.
When someone stole my bike.
"A ""higher status"" colleague of mine despised my attitude and á
organization of work."
"At a restaurant I observed how the gypsies tried to get money by á
cheating the foreigners i.e non Swedish speaking.  My anger had á
nothing to do with hatred against foreigners, but it was an á
expression of the anger I feel when I see people being used "
Being insulted by my roommate.
"I came across a girl at the school bus-stop, I had seen her á
several friends as she was a friend's friend.  However my friend á
had never introduced me to her and when she got off the bus I á
smiled at her but she did not respond pretending not to have s"
"We had fixed time for practice as we had to participate in the á
inter-department song contest.  I arrived and found that there á
was nobody there.  When I went to the canteen I found them eating á
lunch.  I was so angry that I aired my greviances to one "
"When I tried to put up a tent some years ago, I was teased and á
hindered by my cousin."
"When my sister took my things without having asked for my permission á
first."
Being told that I am a stupid person.
"When I saw that my bed at the hostel was a mess I guessed that á
someone else had used my daily necessities.  I felt that my  personal á
sanity had been affected."
They had returned much less of my taxes than I had expected.
Quarrelled with my younger brother.
"My brother told me that a person (whom I know) had insulted him.  á
I am very fond of my brother, and as he himself can not get angry á
or hurt, my protectiveness was aroused and I got angry."
"My nephew is a deaf and also ""hyperactive"" boy. I had been á
responsible for looking after him for a full day, and was very á
tired. Then he suddenly grabbed a knife and stabbed me in the á
leg. I got so angry that I didn't feel any pain."
Being mistreated by other people.
"Last week I had planned to play tennis and had booked a tennis á
court.   However when I arrived at the university gym the clerk á
told me that the court was being used for lessons."
"During the Summer, at my workplace, a person kept interfering á
with my tasks and making unfounded remarks.  I felt hatred for á
him but it stopped when I realized that he just longed for attention."
[ No response.]
My roommate was rude to me.
People not resprcting my opinion.
When my boyfriend went away for a month long holiday without me.
When one is unjustly accused of something one has not done.
"The surname of my brother was different from ours.  He often á
grinned at home and provoked others for the pleasure of it.  This á
made me angry."
"Some foreign students playing loud music before the biology á
examn."
When I quarelled with my parents.
Saw in the TV South Korea cheating in the Asian Olympic games.
"My father and I had an argument because I do not help enough at á
home."
"Your prejudice against psychology students and education students á
(not allowing us to go to the medical university lectures)."
Angry with my brother, who was making fun of me, teasing me.
"A drunken friend of mine was beating up another friend, who was á
also drunk."
"When I heard on the radio that the football match in Belgium had á
ended in a catastrophe, and several people had died.  I could not á
 understand how normal people could behave in such a way."
Mad at my dad.
"My boy-friend came home late one night without having told me á
about it before."
"Being subject to unfair treatment in a working group, someone á
""bending the rules"" was protected by the boss. This resulted in á
more work for the others."
Someone called me a disgusting nickname.
When I spoke to Jan-Erik Wikstr÷m on the telephone. 
The sight of a man who ran amok (fighting) at a dance.
"Unjust accusations directed at me and my way of acting, by á
someone close to me.  "
"An utterance, which I had intended to be a joke, was taken as an á
offence.  In my opinion, this was stupid, and I got angry."
"Some boys deliberately played tricks on me in the experiments.
"
Overhear people talking about me and saying that I am stupid.
"With the job appointments committee when the headmaster in charge á
explained that a male teacher was more suitable for the á
particular post.  I had more years of service than the male á
teacher, but this was not taken into consideration.  I could have á"
"I was angry at my boyfriend who had promised to come to see me á
but did not because he spent the evening with his pals."
"At my Summer job, nobody looked after me in particular and I had á
to learn all on my own."
"Someone told me that I was chosen for English lectures because á
the class leader is going out with me (not true)."
"One of my best friends accused me of giving up to early on á
problems. It was only a casual remark on her side, but I was á
angry and hurt."
"My friend half-teasingly called me a bad nickname.  I felt á
insulted and kicked his hip in anger.  I was stable later and did á
not feel angry at him.  In fact I was afraid that the other á
friends who were with us would think that I was an intolerant á
"
"Being sexually assulted on a bus and noone helped (people only á
laughed)."
"My parents put pressure on me to buy clothes, when I would not á
have liked to do so."
"My friend often played a joke on me and sometimes I thought that á
he was a nonsensical person. Once when we went to a friend's á
house he walked in first and shut the door firmly behind him.  I á
felt that he did not respect me and moreover I was his fri"
"A lady I live with had not bothered to clean up before she went   á
on holiday (I live in a collective)."
South Korea cheating for gold medals.
When my partner was attacked and lost three teeth.
A friend forgot his appointment with me.
"At work, when an elderly man complained unjustifiably about me and á
distrusted me."
"Disagreements with mother.  When I moved from KankaanpSS, she had á
promised to help me move but broke her promise because of some á
hindrance. "
Quarreling with classmates.
"I felt unfairly treated at an airport, being told to use a á
different counter (for domestic traffic only)."
"Someone didn't show up at a meeting in spite of having agreed to á
come."
"I got angry at a friend of mine whom I caught reading my notebook á
(almanach)."
My best friend betrayed me and told other people my secrets.
I was subject to false accusations, and got very angry.
I locked myself out.
[ No response.]
Someone spread rumours about me.
"Whenever my father smokes the smell makes me feel very á
uncomfortable.  He never listens to my complaints and I curse him á
furiously in my mind.  I cannot solve this problem by violence á
because of traditional moral values.  "
"When I heard that my step-mother had treated my mother in a wrong á
manner."
I was told to do something I did not want to do.
"On the T.V I saw a news feature on South Africa.  A policeman      á
attacked a group of black people with a whip."
"My parents do not like my friend and told me to stay away from á
him."
"In September 1984, I was forced to live with someone I did not á
like.  The first week we were at loggerheads and our conversation á
was like a debate.  The atmosphere was very bad.  When he learnt á
that I had got 95 marks in a test he told me "" A failur"
"In a tram, the ticket seller was commanding, taking the role of a á
leader, trying to emphasize her non-existent authority with undue á
strictness towards a good-humoured drunk who could not find his á
ticket at once."
"A close friend first said he accepted an agreement, but later á
used that agreement as a reason for attacking me."
"When I was driving home after  several days of hard work, there á
was a motorist ahead of me who was driving at 50 km/hour and á
refused, despite his low speeed to let me overtake."
"When I got into a bus I found that my wallet had been stolen. á
It was not a great loss from the monetary point of view but I á
lost some documents - identity papers.  As a result I had to á
spend several days in order to get a new one.  I will always á
r"
A male, Honduran acquaintance of mine despised my opinions.
"I was on vacation, and therefore I did not attend a meeting of á
the day care centre.  Nevertheless, the very day I came back they á
called me early morining to ask me ""what are you going to do á
about the matter ?"" (which had been discussed in the meetin"
"When I had been obviously unjustly treated and had no possibility á
of elucidating this."
"When a colleague asked me for help at work, despite the fact á
that he had more time to do it than I had."
Misunderstood by friends.
"When I tried to breake it up with my boyfriend, and he refused to á
let me go."
"Two years back someone invited me to be the tutor of her á
grand-daughter.  The grand-daughter asked me some questions in á
mathematics so I taught her.  However she did not listen to me á
and this made me feel unhappy.  The second year it was the same.  "
A girl I was with went off with another guy.
"The day the results of the Chinese university was announced I á
should have been very happy; however my grandmother, because of  á
her prejudice and misunderstanding, started a  quarrel with my á
mother.  She expected me to take her side and she deliberat"
Being insulted in public for the wrong reason.
Insulted by teacher.
Bus conductor insulted me for not buying a ticket (I forgot).
"My mother and her friends were speaking badly about my father á
when they were separated, and my brothers and sisters and myself á
were allowed to listen."
"I could not find my monthly tickets for the bus when I was on the á
bus."
Being insulted on a bus.
"Without my permission, my son had made popcorn after coming back á
from school.  The consequences were a spoilt kettle and chaos in á
the kitchen but what could have happened with the hot grease ?"
Insulted by other people in the shop.
"My parents did not approve my choice of a boyfriend (now an á
ex-boyfriend).  He happened to be 13 years older than me and he á
was considered completely unsuitable for me.  IDIOT."
"The editor changed the heading of an article that I had written.  á
He considered the heading to be derogatory towards the person I had written á
about."
Meeting generally dominating persons in social occasions.
"There was a sofa in my flat which belonged to the old tenants who á
were acquaintances.  It should have been picked up a year ago but á
they had postponed it.  Eventually they decided on one date and I á
stayed at home despite the fact that I had other th"
"When I got caught in the pouring rain last Thursday and did not á
have a raincoat on me."
When I was talking to HIM at a party for the first time in a long while and a friend came and interrupted us and HE left.
"When a car is overtaking another and I am forced to drive off the á
road."
When I saw a big man hit another one, and nobody did anything.
I was accused of a misdemeanour, unjustly.
"When my father phoned me to come home from my vacation, since he á
no longer had the time to look after my garden and animals."
"A boyfriend with whom I split up with came over to a friend's á
house where I was visiting with a male friend. In a confrontation á
in another room he tried to find out if I was aroused by my á
friend by feeling my parts."
A man was unfair to a girlfriend of mine.
"At an anti-pornography meeting, when samples from films and á
magazines were shown."
"A friend unjustly put the blame on me to relieve his conscience á
and also spread lies for the same purpose."
When I entered a toilet in a bar and it stank.
"Recently in the tram, a man ran his fingers over my girlfriend á
then over me."
Finding out my grades at the end of my Sophomore year.
I saw part of a Prince video with him crawling out of a bath tub.
When a begggar approached me for money, I felt disgusted.
"A girl, who is a friend of mine was having an affair with a boy á
who is also a friend of mine.  I got to know that this girl was á
also seeing another guy.  Later on, she just broke off with this friend á
of mine without giving any explanations.  This ma"
Slaughtering of animals.
"I am disgusted by people who spoil their identity because of á
misbehaviour.  This morning when I was in a crowded bus, I found á
a seat on which a university student was sitting on one side and á
he had put his bag and files next to him.  There was very "
"When a close relative got quite drunk. It was a relative that I á
had respected for a long time and looked up to as a child."
"The repression of rioting and non-rioting ""Blacks"" in South á
Africa by the police of that ""Democracy""."
"I felt disgust as a result of one of my midterms - I thought I á
had prepared well for it, but the end result wasn't what I had á
expected."
"When I heard about the treatment of a friend in jail. Really á
inhuman. I never realised that such things also happen in the á
Netherlands."
"When my parents-in-law scolded me, without any reason, in front of the á
other members of my family for the first time.  They had called á
me from my room where I had been studying for my exams."
"When I think now about the way my father behaved when filing a á
divorce."
Doing poorly on a midterm.
"I was disgusted from a quarrel between two married people, in á
which the children were involved as accusers of one of the á
parents."
"At a party my best girlfriend got really drunk and went off with á
a guy she knows I really like."
"On a trip to Santander a child sitting beside me fell ill and á
started to vomit, seeing this made me feel very bad."
My roommate messing up our room.
[ No response.]
When my husband quarrelled with me for no reason at all.
"When I study my butt off for a midterm and still get an average á
grade."
"When I discovered that the house we had hired in Tonga was full á
of cockroaches."
Encouter with a prostitute.
"One day I was in the countryside with several friends, and we á
began to eat figs, after we were all full we noticed that all the á
figs were full of worms."
"I hate the behaviour of my so called friends, they use bad á
language, spit, boast and treat the youngsters badly."
"I saw the gare of a prison.  This gare and the building were in á
deplorable condition and were full of rubbish."
[ No response.]
"I feel disgust with some people when I see what they are capable á
of, including lack of any dignity, when trying to find a seat in á
the tram."
"One day when I was sitting in a not very crowded bus, a middle  á
aged woman was standing beside me.  The person sitting next to me á
got up to get off and this woman pushed me and occupied the seat. á
 Then she took off her shoes and put her feet on the "
"When reading a newspaper story of a man who had committed á
incestuous acts on his two-year old child - the thought that á
anyone could do such a thing is abhorrent to me."
When I was getting so fat.
A striking act of ingratitude at a public vehicle.
"I once saw an old man up the road, fossicking through the rubbish á
bins and the gutter. I was really disgusted at first but I've á
seen him a few times since then and now I feel really sorry for á
him and I often give him cigarettes when I see him, becau"
"My flatmate and close friend living and sleeping with another á
close friend of mine."
My roommate talking and shaking her bed at night.
"Seeing a friend ""making love"" to a high school girl. I á
accidentally was dragged into this room where the happenings had á
occurred. I was disgusted at the reality."
"I once saw a programme on TV describing how certain wild life á
films were made and was disgusted by the treatment of certain á
animals in this particular programme of the polar bear."
"I felt disgust with a person whose behaviour was out of the á
elementary human norms."
At the sight of an insect, such as the black-beetle.
"A colleague of mine asked a lecturer to put him a higher mark in á
order to keep his good mards and thus to continue getting a á
scholarship for an excellent grade."
"I found out that someone that I knew had someone else taking á
tests for her."
"Having unwanted attention paid to me in my place of work - á
harrassment (and sexual harrassment) by another worker - á
disgusted by his implications."
"When I was in Eindhoven on an Exhibition of Hernan Nitsche, who á
made paintings with real blood. There were also photographs about á
the killing of cows."
Watching a TV documentary on seal clubbing.
"When a friend of mine keeps telling me morbid things that á
happened to his dog."
"My roommate being nice to a party leader in order to get into the á
party."
"I felt disgusted on seeing my boyfriend after our separation.  á
One day he was begging at the mass transit railway station and at á
that moment I hated him."
"When I woke up one morning and went to the kitchen I discovered á
that our dog had diarrhoea.  There were small ""piles"" all over á
the floor and the smell was choking."
"I was once raped (one year ago) by a man who was a lot older than á
me and whom I just met. Maybe it wasn't rape but the man wanted á
more than I wanted to give him since there were other people in á
vicinity."
"When I first saw the state of a cafeteria in the grounds of the á
university. Due to students own lack of concern for the á
environment in which they eat and drink. Rubbish and spilled tea á
and coffee left everywhere."
"A few days ago I saw two dandy girls of my age. I disliked their á
clothes and their way of doing."
When I read racist slogans on the walls.
"Saw two Canadian students boasting about how rich they are in á
Canada."
"When I stand at the bus stop for one hour waiting for the bus to á
arrive."
When I heard about the disaster in Bophal (India).
"When I was an auxiliary nurse at the hospital and I had to change á
the nappies, for the first time, of a very old and sick woman."
"My boss on the job failed to keep his promise about something he á
knew was extremely important to me."
"When I lose on my bets on anything - baseball, football, á
basketball, track, craps, poker, or arcade - whether its 5 á
dollars or 200 I feel that I should never have done it in the á
first place."
"A piece of work was marked as bad by the teachers I and some á
fellow students didn't agree with their vague criticism. I felt á
myself taken in by the teachers and felt disgust."
Saw a scene in a movie implying incest as humorous.
"A person I know who tells lies and so pretending to be better á
than she is."
"I was an instructior in a youth organization.  Whenever we, the á
instructors would have a meeting the advisor would be present.  á
He did not understand our worknig conditions but talked a lot á
and had a lot of outdated ideas.  Whenever we disagreed wit"
"I feel disgusted when people do not understand me in the right á
way, i.e they misunderstand me."
"I have felt this feeling when a person whom I believe and respect, á
lied to me."
I saw in the street a man spitting.
"I feel disgust at my neighbour, because she comes to our house with á
her child, who spoils our furniture."
"When my friend who is close to me got engaged and did not invite á
me."
When people around me did not understand me the right way.
"When other people refuse to do their house jobs and give the á
work to someone else."
"I was supposed to be studying for my math midterm a few days ago, á
however, I fooled around with my roommate, and didn't start á
studying until 12:00 am. I was disgusted with myself."
When I had to eat scraps from a dust-bin, because of a bet.
"When somebody behaves like a scoundrel. Recently a colleague of á
mine used the name of another one for his own benefit."
"I read a newspaper article about dogs being stolen in order to á
use them for fighting purposes."
Friends calling me fat - pear shaped in front of a nice girl.
"From the cigarette smoke. Usually I feel disgust from it when I á
am in a restaurant."
"A drunk walked out in front of a car at night. Both lower legs á
were broken. His shoe was thrown about 50 yards after the á
accident."
"My girlfriend lost her temper without any reason and she did not á
consider or respect my feelings."
"A friend of mine had sex with someone of a different race on a á
Winnebago trip down to USC in front of everyone (all my friends á
embarrassed my sorority house name)."
"My parents claimed me on their income tax after I had been out of á
the house for two years receiving no financial support from them. á
As result I had to work more during school because they were á
expected by the FAO to contribute to my education when t"
When my husband told me about his pre-marital affairs.
"I was dominated by a certain person and even though I knew it I á
could not change my own reactions."
"When I tried to explain to my child as to why there were á
magazines wiith naked girls on them at the kiosk."
"In secondary school I had a class-mate who talked too much.   á
Once we went to the cinema after school and she sat next to me and á
commented the movie throughout  - very disgusting."
"Flicking through a magazine showing pictures of homosexual men á
committing various acts."
"When my mother's new husband treated her and my brothers and á
sisters badly."
"Such a feeling springs up in me sometimes when I have meals at a á
catering establishment. It is a result either of the look of the á
food or when watching the way some people eat."
"I applied for a job of GALSO counselor and I made the strongest á
possible application but was denied an interview. I felt á
disgusted at the system which by promoting the cause of á
minorities makes employing whites lowest priority."
"I deliberately avoided a person who I wanted to hurt, and who á
wanted to talk to me."
NO RESPONSE.
"When I had exams a relative of ours, who lives in another city,á
came to visit us and I felt disgusted at him."
Disgust with drunk people.
The lift of Stockholm central station stank of vomit and urine.
"One of my very good friends came to me for advice as her á
boyfriend had been hitting her and beating her quite harmfully."
"Right now I volunteer at a hospital. Yesterday, Halloween, I á
dressed up as a doctor and went to work. The volunteer á
coordinator told me after my shift that it was dangerous to have á
done what I did."
"When I saw a T.V programme on animals in the film world á
(mistreated and used)."
"Now that the 49ers are winners, the fans are coming out of the á
woodwork and jumping on the bandwagon and that disgusts me."
A sour looking man was beating his thin dog in Remuera.
"I read in the newspaper about a 21 yr. old woman who was found á
naked and dead along a roadside. It turned out she had had two á
relatives 14 and 19 who were kidnapped, raped and killed earlier."
"A friend of mine goes out with this guy. She sleeps with him but á
is quite happy for him to play around - as well as herself."
"It was at a comsomol(??) meeting, the last one because we were to á
graduate. The way one of my fellow-students behaved made me feel á
disgusted."
"I felt disgusted about a teacher who had rejected all that was á
human in her. She refused to accept the flowers we gave her for á
the eighth of March and asked for a foreign parfume instead."
"During a movie in which I saw the effect of white settlers in á
Africa."
I greeted a friend and he did not respond.
NO RESPONSE
"My brother gave me a beating because he could not beat me á
verbally."
"I worked in a harbour and emptied latrine containers from the á
back of the lorries."
"At what I was capable of of selfishly using others for sexual á
encounters, while I held a vision of having a deepening á
above-board (you know, ""girl next door"") devotion to a girl in my á
head. My drives and actions did not match this so consequently I "
"When the N.Z. rugby union announced that they would proceed with á
a rugby tour of South Africa."
"When one individual takes advantage of and/or injures another á
relatively defenseless individual, consciously. I feel disgust á
mingled with anger. A person on my dorm floor verbally assaulted á
another person for having a certain religious belief."
Because of the examination I had to study night and day.
A relative not acting on her promise.
"When I was touring Asia with my present football team, I saw old á
Europeans with young asiatic prostitutes."
"A gathering of a social sports club at which they proceeded to á
show pornographic videos and then afterwards (when most people á
had had quite a bit to drink) carried on in a very degrading, á
unmoral manner - especially females exposing and flaunting á
"
"I took a psych. experiment with a totally unappealing gay man as á
the experimentor, some homosexuals are funny or cute, but this á
guy was disgusting. Plus the experiment was about gays too."
"With the N.Z. Rugby Union wanting to send the All Blacks to South á
Africa."
"It was in a tramway-carriage: A stranger insulted a girl just á
because she blew her nose. I detested his behaviour."
"I was sitting in the bus and a man with a very unpleasant á
smell came and sat next to me, to top it all he smoked á
continously."
"When an employer of my younger sister (17 yrs) made a ""pass"" at á
her."
Talking to someone I disliked.
"When a man spoke very sexistly in the company of some friends of á
mine."
"I felt disgusted when I was in a restaurant which didn't appear á
to be clean and orderly. (I do not like to be in unclean á
environments)."
"A child told me she had been sexually abused by her step-father. á
I only knew the child and had not come into contact with either á
parent. I tried to do what was best for the child. The event and á
the stepfather disgusted me."
"One of my good friends told people something I had told her á
in confidence about someone else."
"While travelling in a bus, there were three people sitting behind á
me (two men and a woman).  They were drunk and the conversation á
was unbelievable (about fucking, fellatio, etc...).  They tried á
to get others to take part in the conversation.  I loat"
"When I was a young teenager (14)  my brother-in-law to be had á
made heavy advances to me.  I did not understand very well what á
it was all about but I reacted strongly and the feelings are á
still there."
"Some time ago I was disgusted with the ""cleanness"" of the á
refectory of our institute."
Robbery mentioned under sadness.
"Disgusted with boyfriend's mother - her overpowering, á
over-protecting and selfish attitudes."
"I came across a group of people with the same basic ideas/beliefs á
who were all fighting and going against what they would say was á
good."
"I'm very disgusted when I see people abusing their body with á
drugs and alcohol. They take advantage of these things usually á
for an excuse for the fantasies which they like and so they do á
things stupidly and unjustly."
Deception from a person I loved very much.
"When my uncle comes (3 times a year) for the traditional á
Christmas dinner with my grandparents and other relatives and is á
very drunk."
"I hate hypocrisy. My friend (girl) tried to intrude into my á
affairs with my future husband. After that she behaved as if á
nothing had happened."
With an alcoholic.
"When I saw all the starving people in Ethiopia on T.V.  It felt á
awful to see such suffering."
"I was disgusted at the behavior of these boys I work with in the á
scouting program. They showed a lack of interest, unrest, and at á
times just plain rude behavior."
"I feel disgust with my first boyfriend who made fun of our love á
in an abominable way."
"I thought that the guy I had been associating with for over a á
year went out 2 or 3 times with a high school girl whom he claimed á
not to like."
"During a summer holiday at a bar I happened to see a dead to the á
world woman."
Postgraduate students talking about girls stupid.
"I felt disgusted when I found out that someone had betrayed me. á
That person had been dishonest with me and I felt used."
When I see the acts and deeds of a blind drunk man.
"I felt disgust with a lady teacher who used to nag, to mock, to á
interrupt everyone of my fellow students each time we had a class á
with her in our first year."
"My friends and I were sitting at a restaurant. We were talking á
and a few of them said awful things about women. I became á
disgusted by their narrow-mindedness."
"I had a very good friend (boy) and I thought I could rely on him á
but he behaved badly with a girl who used to trust us completely."
"I didn't do very well on a midterm and I'm disgusted with myself á
because I was prepared and thought I did well."
"I felt disgust with alcohol in general when a close friend of á
mine got so drunk that he didn't realize what he was doing and it á
was quite shameful."
[ No response.]
"I had been forced to get together with strange and disgusting á
classmates.  The things they talked about disgusted me and made á
me feel ill at ease.  I knew that I would feel unhappy if I á
stayed there but I was defeated by the social norms."
"With a woman who had walked into my place of employment and á
urinated on the floor in front of everyone."
"People who came to our home - and requested ""Put out your smoke"". á
That we should not smoke in our house... and asked not even á
politely. It disgusted me because I think people need to adapt to á
the situation."
"I was disgusted by my paranoid attitude towards myself, my á
homework at university and disgusted about my lack of retention. á
Especially in learning another language."
"I am disgusted with the behavior of a car driver whose car would á
run over me and my friends during our autumn brigade."
"I work part-time as a shop-assistant and a customer spoke to me á
very loudly about an Indian man & white woman with children - how á
horrible that was and would I want to have little dark children."
"I attended a ceremony in Denmark which is comparable to our á
Halloween. They build a large bonfire and place a life size dummy á
of a witch. The crowd cheered when the dummy burst into flames."
"Very intoxicated men who incite each other to fight.   I met a á
vile smelling man on the tram who got closer and closer to me á
till I got up, then he got angry."
"In autumn I had to move to another lodging. My landlords, quite á
intelligent people, warned me I had to move in the nearest á
future. But I had difficulties in moving my luggage because I á
couldn't wait for a car to come. How amazed I was to hear them á"
"I am disgusted with a nieghbour who is looking for all sorts of á
quarrel with my parents and me. He feels we are hampering his á
living close to us. This has been going on for quite a long time."
"I got disgusted with a man who was beating a woman in the street. á
I just happened to be there but I was abhorred by the rudness."
"Someone, who was sitting very close to me, was smoknig in the á
compartment of an air conditioned mini-bus."
"Disgust for a person who treated me badly, and has treated other á
people similarly - including lying, hiding facts, being á
deceitful, unfair, etc."
"I was disgusted to find out that the water isn't filtered or á
purified before it leaves Latimer Hall from the drains."
"When I saw a girl in my economics discussion section smiling and á
asking stupid questions to the TA. just to get attention. She was á
obviously ass-kissing. It happens in every Econ. discussion held á
weekly."
"Coming home one night - my sister was home, and had been drinking á
heavily and started picking arguments."
"Many times, when my father used to come home drunk and maltreated á
physically me and my mother."
I feel disgusted with the bootlickers, with helpless people.
"I vividly remember having feelings of disgust toward some of my á
jr. high classmates who didn't work at all on their schoolwork á
and who would coplain and take my tax money when I was older and á
more successful than they were. At the time I pictured so"
When a skunk invaded camp.
Getting a low grade on my physics midterm.
[ No response.]
"This person I know lied about how much income his parents made á
and received money through grants which he did not need. Another á
person is barely making it, did not lie, and did not receive á
enough money."
When I saw President Reagan get elected.
"With a Manager who insists on making crude innuendos pertaining á
to sex."
"I trusted a friend of mine, but she lied to me about something á
and this disgusted me."
"When I dined with my new friends, one of them kept reminding us á
that he was superior."
"When someone whom I considered my friend, without telling me he á
was annoyed, proceeded to ignore me for several meets with no á
apparent reason."
"Prolonged ""niggling"" of friend on a single theme which I á
considered of no consequence."
Noticing my flat had maggotts !
 The smell of garlic in rush-hour bus.
When my roommate forgets to flush the toilet.
"I saw a film about the nazi concentration camps during the war. á
After the film I felt disgust."
An Engineer I know wants war so he can get a job making bombs.
"Next door nieghbour ran over his cat in driveway, he tried to á
finish it off with a flat shovel. I would have taken cat to á
veterinary to either kill humanely or cure."
"Knowing that I had to do the survey with him I felt very á
reluctant.  Although I do not know him I feel disgusted by just á
looking at him.  Thinking that the project lasted several days I á
regreted having joined that project."
A lie on the part of a person close to me.
"I was looking for an object when I came across a rotten corpse of á
a rat."
"Observation of people lost in the profit motive - i.e. business á
managers to their actions esp."
"During the Chinese lessons a student often showed off. Moreover á
he misbehaved and dressed very badly.  So disgusting !"
"With my mouth full of bun, I drank directly from a packet of milk á
which turned out to be weeks old (completely separated).  It took á
a while for the milk to seep through the bun."
"When people/press analyze a particular newsworthy item (CAL á
Football team) which I am a member and can only see the situation á
in a bad light and always put the team down."
When employer made a pass at me whilst I was at work.
"At an unworthy behaviour of a man, pettiness, stupidity and á
mostly at a philistinism."
"The behaviour of a colleague of mine, which doesn't correspond to á
my norms of behaviour."
Obscene phone calls.
"Some time ago a man tried to teach me something. ""Tried"" because á
it is very difficult to teach somebody when you yourself are not á
competent and cultured."
"Sitting in the dorm when the guys were verbally reading letters á
in Penthouse."
[ No response.]
"I was driving along and saw this young guy urinating into the á
gutter, in broad daylight."
"I felt disgusted while studying for my applied psychology and á
mental testing papers in B.A."
[ No response.]
When I found out the CIA was mining Nicaraguan harbors.
"Watching an alcoholic woman who was approaching everyone at the á
wharf for cigarettes - a prostitute in Auckland (elderly)."
Some boys boasting about their ability to tell dirty jokes.
"Getting back my math midterm, I received a lower grade than I á
thought I would get. After going through the questions I felt á
that the grader had graded harshly and I had made only a few ? á
errors."
A close friend took part in a racist violent action.
The event which got me angry got also an aversion in me.
When I went home by train from Sicilia, I was molested by a man.
"I became disgusted with the man on whom I had counted, who I had á
trusted, the man who should have been my mainstay - my father. á
I could hardly make myself (and the others) believe in this á
emotion. It has cumulated after events and deeds. Everything "
"When someone I had had a relationship (purely sexual) with came á
up to me after I had used her and acted as if nothing had á
changed."
"I was playing a sport in an advanced PE class and many of the á
people were not advanced."
"Finding out some people had been talking about me at my back.
"
"When I was talking to a person who is a hypocrite, I felt á
disgusted at his reaction."
"I get disgusted with the inherent racist attitudes of my á
brother-in-law in putting down various ethnic groups and also my á
unwillingness to challenge him about these attitudes in order to á
keep the peace."
"I had intercourse with someone and then I realized that what I á
had done was wrong and it disgusted me."
"Cleaning the bathroom of my apt. and realizing my roommate who á
had lived there all summer by himself had never cleaned the á
place."
When a close friend wilfully cheated me.
"For a drunk man (about 20 years old) that I met one evening, and á
who behaved impudently with the girls standing by."
"A friend's boy-friend treated her very badly, let her serve him, á
provoked her and just utilized her."
"Having moved into a flat within the last week I felt some disgust á
that a bathroom tap had been left to drip with a faulty fawcet."
[ No response.]
"Finding that a girlfriend of mine was a prostitute and had been á
seeing many others during our relationship."
Reading literature on AIDS/homosexuality.
"I was reading in the paper the feature on Henry Lucas who claims á
to have killed 380 people. He was a recreational killer and a á
necrophiliac and zoophiliac. He has raped and beaten many women á
and killed men too."
"I was present when they found a shop-keeper dead in his shop.  á
He had been shot with a shotgun at close range."
"Through the media and their presentation of a kidnapped child who á
was raped."
Our boarder burping after meals !
"I happened to see the video-tape movie ""This is America - Part á
one"" at my friend's place."
"I met three drunk boys, almost children, they didn't look like á
normal people."
"My friends aren't working for the same common goal we all need to á
accomplish."
"When my roommate came home at 10 in the morning after sleeping á
with a guy she did not know because she got drunk. (Se has a á
boyfriend too)."
"Once when I was babysitting for some neighbors children I found á
roaches in ther bathroom. I had never seen a roach before but I á
called my mother to make sure that's what they were. And she came á
over and checked."
"When I saw a wino by some cans with Food Stamps and use the á
change to buy wine."
"During the week-end at home, my mother fries greasy and unhealthy á
meat dishes which make me feel sick."
"Once when I had started to write a paper, there was a phone á
call for me.  I had to go downstairs to receive it and after the á
conversation I discovered that all the information had á
disappeared from my mind."
"I detest any kind of constraint and hate the attempts of elder á
people to force me to a norm of behavior without having legal or á
moral rights to do it. I felt this emotion when a neighbour of á
mine made me kick out my guests because they had talked ve"
"After learning on the news about this man who killed more than á
300 women and habitually copulated into their inert bodies."
Helping older people on the toilet.
"Hearing Norman Jones get hysterical in Parliament about law á
reform (on the radio - listening with 2 others)."
"When somebody who had been a bully and had acted cruelly to á
others who were unable to defend themselves was taken down a few á
notches and he began to grovel. I was disgusted with his á
grovelling and the manner in which he had treated others."
"My older sister used to pick on my brothers and sisters all of á
whom were younger than her. On one occasion my brother did á
something my sister didn't like. A full-scale battle began."
When my friend, after a beer spree vomitted in my sitting room.
"I made friends with a classmate whose behaviour I did not like - á
he tried to flatter other people and did not respect me."
"I visited a place in Morocco where they worked the leather.  I á
saw the skins emerged in a liquid which ressembled putrification."
"A few days back, I walked on a heap of faeces while walking on á
the road.  I got goose flesh because of this."
"Last week a former school (secondary) mate of mine, who is now in á
a differentt school came to my room here at UNZA in my absence.  á
He was drunk and he vomited in my room.  I was unhappy."
"In a bus I fell sick and vomitted in a bag.  The entire situation á
was disgusting in itself."
I saw some images of a decapitation in a horror film.
"When I saw a picture, in the Gothenburg Post, of a totally á
demolished car with two fatally injured passengers.  The car was á
so badly damaged that they couldn't get the bodies out at the á
scene of the accident."
"When my demand for accomodation on the campus was refused and the á
rooms were allotted to first year students who were from ""Rucher"" á
and came from influential families."
"When I entered a brothel and saw two sailors with a young á
prostitute who was not older than 18."
"When I saw a film in which the man suffered from an illness and    á
his skin came peeling off."
"I was at the table at a French friend's house.  They served me a á
big dish with roast cauliflower and sauce.  I had to eat it. "
When I was weeding the garden I found a lizard in my hand.
"I had joined a youth group that observed the affairs of our á
community and so I had many opportunities to contact the á
government and the committee members of the district board (a á
local executive structure).  We always tried to consult and á
discuss "
"My dog had been run over and died near the house.  We had to pick á
him up, cold and glassy eyed, to get rid of the corpse."
"Observing someone in the cafeteria noisily gulping in his food, á
having extremely bad manners."
When I found my girl in bed with another man.
"The first time I saw a pornographic film, all that in practice is á
so beautiful but on the screen appered as something mechanical, á
irrational, disgusting and dehumanizing."
"When I was reading a book.  It had nothing to do with the book á
itself but with the disagreable smell of the pages of the book."
"I felt some disgust for my boyfriend for a time, after he had á
left me."
"When my grandmother came to stay with us permanently as she is a á
very difficult person to stay with and when she started telling á
false stories about us to other people."
When someone makes advances that one does not want.
Grovelling people.
I found a big, black spider near a bag of food.
When I saw an accident where the man lost his head.
"I had prepared a special meal for my boyfriend but when my á
brother came home he ate it all.  I was really disgusted about it."
Ever since I have been a child, the sight of any kind of wound.
When a dog is left whining outside a shop.
"An officer at the Dean of students office had promised me to give á
me a room the next day, but he failed to keep his promise."
Finding a hair in the soup.
"A few days back I was waiting for the bus at the bus stop.  á
Before getting into the bus I had prepared the exact amount of á
coins to pay for the bus fair and when I got into the bus I put á
these coins into the box meant to collect the bus fair.  I á
t"
When I was walking in a field which had a lot of manure.
When I was told that I had no right to control my lover.
"When my relatives troubled me so that I would help them á
financially."
"While walking in town I noticed how the police harrassed a man á
who was under the influence of alcohol.  They terrified him with á
the thought of arrest by driving close behind him on a pedestrian á
street.  My disgust was directed at the gestures and th"
When I had to sleep in a bed at a hostel, which was full of dirt.
When I found out that someone close to me was flirting around.
Seeing a film in which there were several bloody crimes.
"During these Summer vacations a schoolmate who was not in my á
class went to Britain.  Before he left, his classmates and some á
of us who were accquainted with him had a B.B.Q on the beach.  á
When I arrived I saw that some people , who were not close á
"
"When I was substituted in a play which was to be staged, after I á
had learnt all the lines."
"I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an        á
operation."
"At a Sm÷rgasbord table, a man mixed differnet kinds of picked á
herrings with fruit salad."
"When I was young, one day in the car we fell sick and ended up á
vomitting on each other."
"I felt disgusted when a fellow student asked me to marry him.  I á
had not expected this from him as he was a mere friend."
The physical appearance of a meal.
"I had to wash my grandmother because she did not get to the á
bathroom on time."
"When after a storm in the country, I left my shelter and saw a á
big, fat, slimy green toad by my side."
"A situation of overt unfairness, manipulation of people and its á
consequences."
"At the underground station, a drunkard came to speak to me.  He á
tried to ask me something but I did not answer so he began to á
speak about me with his companion.  I detested this dirty á
growling man."
"When I heard that my sister had shouted at my friend's cousin at á
their place."
The sight of vomit on the street.
"I was in the cafeteria at the university and a class-mate told me á
that a friend of hers had had all her teeth taken out because of á
an infection caused by her eating a rat's nail in her hamburger."
"A brother from one of the Christian fellowship often phoned me á
and talked to me for half an hour or more.  However there was á
nothing important in the conversation and I found the person very á
disgusting."
"In the evening, while I was watching TV, my little brother came á
in and started eating food he had brought from the kitchen while á
I was trying to concentrate on the program."
"When a girl said in my back that we were in love, and she had á
actually refused me.  When I confronted her she started insulting á
me."
"On the road there was a dead animal with its entrails showing and á
its skull crushed."
"When I found a maggot in my food at the dinning hall, all the á
food had gone bad."
"When my younger sister visited me during the school holidays and á
told me that she would not go back to school because she was á
pregnant."
The man who threw me out of the flat disgusted me.
"Out of sheer curiosity, I went to see a pornographic movie in á
Copenhagen.  The room was full of men, who panted and á
masturbated.  Very disgusting."
"A certain girl asked me what my major was and when I told her á
that it was P.A she started criticizing it saying, ""I hate that á
course.""  She just shows off in front of other people."
"One day I was going through the street door of my house, when a á
man asked me for a doctor.  He then showed me his genitals and á
asked me to cure him myself."
"My boyfriend and I did not have any contact with each other during  á
the Summer holidays.  I met him the day of the registration and looked  á
through him.  In the canteen he asked me if I wanted to have a drink and  á
I said no as I did not want him to "
"When I saw several people washing their car with water from a á
drain."
When I had to dissect a live mouse at school.
[ No response.]
"When I found out that the seat in the coach that I had booked had á
been sold to somebody else."
Seeing maltreated, dead animals.
When I see pornographic films.
"When the committee, to which I belong, was accused of having á
squandered the money of the association."
"One of these people who sell meat in town used a knife to stab á
his friend and later carried on using the same knife to cut meat."
One day I went to see a rather disagreeable film (X).
Nothing.
When I, for the first time, failed a junior exam, i.e form 3.
"Once I had to clean a lavatory which was obstructed.  It was in a á
friend's country house and there was nobody there to help me."
"They asked me to throw the rubbish into a dustbin which had some á
awful liquid accumulated at the bottom."
Not applicable.
"When I went to report a stolen good at the police station, the á
woman-officer-in-charge was very rude and did not seem to have á
respect for anyone."
"During lunch with some classmates, a priest was also there.  He á
was eating desperately as if someone was going to take his plate á
away.  He did it with gluttony.  He wiped his hands on his suit á
several times and it was full of crumbs."
To loose friends because of them over-estimating themselves.
When I see someone vomitting.
"I was drinking coffee in a cafe and I found a piece of scrubber á
in my cup."
"Some friends and I were having lunch.  Someone said something á
funny and one of the guys started laughing and spat his food in a girl's á
face."
"In the tram there was a fat, sickly looking woman in front of me á
who was asking for directions in a thick voice.  When she got up to á
go a disgusting smell of urine came from her.  I felt that I á
would choke."
"I came across a woman in town who was very drunk.  She was á
swearing at everyone and carried on drinking even though she á
could hardly stand."
A TV program on whale-hunting.
"I saw in an ice-cream kiosque a cockroach walking through a á
cornet."
"My mother was always fastidious about my room, bed time, etc.  á
She treated us strictly and punished us physically.   These á
things were intolerable."
When I failed the  grade 7 exams.
"I read a book whose plot and expressions were obscene and in very á
bad taste."
"My superior at the summer job swindled customers as much as he á
could, and once put me in a difficult situation after which I á
could not but detest him."
"Once at a camp a classmate criticized me in front of others.  Now á
I find that this classmate is very disgusting."
"Someone stole a K10 note and the teacher thought that it was me á
when I was not responsible for the theft."
"A drunkard fell, started bleeding and wet himself.  Disgust that á
turned into sadness-unpleasantness."
A pig in the well from which we drink.
"This was when I saw, for the first time, a naked woman á
(prostitute) run away from a house after having been discovered á
by the guardian."
"The teacher of one course gave me 10 questions with sub-questions á
going from a to e for each question.  She asked me to do all this á
in one and a half hours.  It involved a lot of describing and á
explaining and even though I knew all the answers, I co"
"When one finds out that someone you know is not at all like one á
had thought, for instance friends who steal and things like that, á
quite unwarranted."
"I stormed into the room, hoping to cool myself with some soft á
music from my three band radio cassette.  There was only young á
Kaley there and he explained, "" Your aunt has sold it as she á
wanted to buy clothes."""
"A man sexually aggressed a small girl in the bus but the girl did á
not dare to speak out."
"I was disappointed by a girlfriend when I visited her at her home á
in Woodlands."
When my father thought that I was an unrelaible son.
When I found a bristle in the liver paste tube.
Friends who torture animals.
"When at school I thought that I was going to get the best results á
in mathematics, but it was someone else who got the prize."
"When I realized that my closest friend had said bad things about á
me when I was not around and had betrayed me by making friends á
with my boyfriend's other girl."
"When my girlfriend told me that she was no longer interested in á
me."
"I am disgusted at the number of second year students who are á
pregnant illegitimately."
When I nearly walked on a blindworm and then saw it crawl away.
I met my best friend's husband with a prostitute.
"The curriculum of the year !   The English course was very heavy. á
 I had not prepared and the teacher asked several questions á
during class.  The students were not ready to answer the á
questions and the teacher was frustated."
"When my cousin put feaces in my washing.  A silly idea which was á
meant to be a joke."
"When I heard of the assassination of the Indian prime-minister, á
Indira Gandhi."
"There was a cat on the street.  It had been run over and its head was á
open.  We passed beside it."
"The day I was forced to use a public convenience place in town.  á
It was so filthy that it really made me sick."
"My roommate liked to listen to some meaningless songs which had á
melody but had no content.  We lived together so when he played á
the recorder I was forced to listen to them.  I could not tell á
him that I did not like to listen to the songs, as I had n"
"I was at home and I heard a loud sound of spitting outside the á
door.  I thought that one of my family members would step on the spit á
and bring the germs in the house."
"When my best friend started getting involved in my private á
affairs."
"I was disgusted at the university wanting some of us to travel á
from our homes to the lectures here every day.  The way the whole á
thing was handled disgusted me."
When I discovered that my mother had been involved in adultery.
I saw a friend's husband with another woman.
"The time I knocked a deer down - the sight of the animal's á
injuries and helplessness.  The realization that the animal was á
so badly hurt that it had to be put down, and when the animal á
screamed at the moment of death."
"A class-mate answered (accidentally) the call of nature in the á
class during a tough mathematics examination."
"When I was told that the brother who was staying with me would á
not go to the training school that year but only the year after."
"This happened when I went to visit my friend in Chelston and á
found him screwing my girlfriend."
"On Christmas day a drunk man came to our house without a shirt á
on, he dansed, spoke nonsense and behaved stupidly."
"When some people, including me, are treated in a way which á
equates them to an animal or a thing."
"The day I went to eat dinner in the dinning hall and found a á
dead fly in my gravy."
"I was in a train when a woman started talking loudly and á
attracting everybody's attention.  The worst thing was that she á
was discussing something, about which she knew nothing, with another person."
"One day I went to town to get my grocery.  On my way back, I took á
a mini bus which was full of drunk students.  I felt very á
disgusted."
"When my brother promised me money but he failed to fulfill the á
promise."
"When I failed to secure employment after my form 5 in Lusaka despite á
my excellent certificate."
"At a gathering I found myself involuntarily sitting next to two á
people who expressed opinions that I considered very low and á
discriminating."
When I failed an exam.
"When a boy put a handful of cooked potatoes down my dress and á
there was no water to clean up."
Over an argument.
"At hostel, my roommate was a very selfish person and would avoid á
doing anyhting that did not concern him.  A few of us prepared lunch á
together and had decided to share the work.  My roomate had á
promised to do the same but I had to wash the bowls eve"
"When I saw all the very drunk kids (13-14 years old) in town on á
Walpurgis night."
A bad smelling cucumber.
"When my mother betrayed me by obtaining money from my husband á
when we were separated - pending divorce."
When I saw an insect going up my arm.
When I witnessed an accident.
" I was at a friend's place for lunch and she fell ill and á
vomited."
When an alcoholic stood dribbling over a food counter.
When I learnt that my cousin sister was pregnant.
When I was getting up, I found a live cockroach in my bedroom.
"When I came to know that my father and his parents were : self á
interested, dirty, negative, egoist, bad peolpe,......"
"A friend told me that a boy wanted to get to know me.  At that á
time I felt disgusted and thought that it was a nonsense thing."
When a person I did not know hurt a friend of mine.
"In a park near our home, a group of young people who were á
strangely dressed were seated in the middle of the street.  They á
began to eat while carressing each other."
"My room-mate was drunk, he vomited on the floor and fell face á
down on the vomit nearly choking himself to death.  Then he á
fainted and so I called the first aid."
At the hypocrisy of some of my friends.
"When I was taking my girlfriend out, she seemed to have taken á
her time."
"I found a cockroach crushed between two folders in my bedroom, I á
called my mother."
"It was when I read a newspaper article on the future and they á
foresaw that we would be eating frog-burgers by the year 2000.  á
An illustration showed a frog between two pieces of bread."
"When I patronized a certain tavern which had prostitutes, it was á
almost a brothel."
I saw a sort of black worm being attacked by many ants.
"In a film there was a scene in which a rat was sliding on a bed, á
leaving a trace of blood behind, finally it entered the mouth of á
one of the actors."
"I had a friend who was very kind to me.  I tried my best to like á
him and understand him but when I was with him I could not help á
rejecting, criticizing and blaming him.  I wanted to get away á
from him as soon as possible."
"I feel disgusted at not having got aa ""A"" in yesterday's á
practicals of G220."
"While watching a movie, someone who was drunk started vomiting á
helplessly."
"When I failed the grade 7 twice and only passed it the third á
time."
"When a drunkard, in town yelled at me saying that I was a á
prostitute."
"When I was refused a transfer from my school to another, simply á
because it was far away from my house."
"When thieves broke into our house, I was disgusted by their á
behaviour.  They did not find anything so they broke things like á
the windows, glasses etc."
"Whenever I spoke to a female classmate I felt disgusted.  She á
said meaningless things and seemed to indicate something to me á
but I did not love/like her."
"When I got  grade ""C"" in M160 at the end of my first year at á
UNZA.  I had expected a ""C+"" or a ""B"" as M160 is easy, going by my á
capacity in mathematics."
"When one learns through the mass media all the wars and killing á
going on in the world."
"When I learnt that my offer to study at the university had been á
withdrawn  and so I would not get hostel accomodation at UNZA, á
even though I registered as a student later."
When someone whom I trusted, disappointed me terribly.
"I usually come back home early but this day I came home back late á
to find some visitors at my place."
"My friend and I worked for the community centre by holding a booth. á
 One day my friend went off to another booth to play.  This á
meant that I was very busy and could not maintain order.  His á
behaviour disgusted me."
"When I was denied my favourite dish at the dinning hall (shima á
with roast chicken), I felt disgusted."
"When I was teaching a student started making silly remarks in á
class."
"When my roommate and I had dinner together we decided as to who á
would clean the bowls.  One day when I came back from school I á
found that she had not cleaned up.  Since I had to cook dinner I á
cleaned them myself and felt unhappy and disgusted."
"When we were young, a friend of mine tried to dissect a frog while  á
we were playing near his home."
"When I saw a woman who had been run over by a train, just off á
Kafue.  The woman had been cut to bits, there was blood and        á
splinters of bone every where."
"The transport to pick us up for lunch was always late and the á
driver made the same excuse every day."
"I saw a cripple in rags with small children in Italy.  He was á
probably an imposter."
"When my mother got a terrible beating from my father.  It was so á
bad that she fainted and it was only then that my dad realized á
how bad it was."
When opened a box of biscuits and found worms inside.
"When I saw a film in which there was a scene where women were cut á
to pieces.  Above all, it was the blood and the confusion which á
impressed me most."
I found some worms in the food and I had obviously eaten some.
"When I had just moved into my new appartment I found a ventilator á
in the kitchen.  I was going to clean it when I found that the á
drum was full of mud and slime.  I felt disgusted."
When my sister's boyfriend accused her of having been sleeping around.
"Grandfather lives in a home for the elderly. He always looks á
forward to visits. On his birthday (by coincidence it was on á
""Mummy's day"") however, nobody went to see him. Is the own family á
more important than grandfather ?"
"When a girl I knew aborted and threw the seven month foetus in a á
man-hole."
"During military service I heard the story of someone who tried to á
commit suicide and as a result of this got a week custody."
"During a recent meeting, Mr. A showed his excitement and á
overindulged in the notes delivered.  Though his curiosity could á
not be blamed, his way of accquiring knowledge was an extreme á
behaviour e.g he always tried to know what I was reading and á
ga"
"During my birthday party a friend drank too much alcohol. So much á
that he had to throw up. Worst of all was that he couldn't leave á
my friend alone and that he was molesting her."
"I felt it today when the bus driver shouted rather indecent words á
at a man without any reason whatsoever."
"When I beat up my brother in order to control him and make him á
obey my parents orders."
Attitude to a related family.
When I saw a big spider from very close.
A mother who shouts at her child for nothing.
"I once saw an elderly lady who was not properly dressed.  She was á
wearing a transparent dress, such things are not sopposed to be á
seen in African society."
"A student who lives in the same house where I live is an alcoholic. He á
tries to manipulate other people with his money when he has drunk á
too much."
"The first time that I saw a surgeon cut off a leg and put it in a á
black rubbish bag."
"A person whom I thought to be honest took and spend the little á
money that I had and I had no way of getting any money in the á
few following months."
Being mistreated by my former primary school teacher, Mr Zalu.
Our neighbour came and gossiped, about others, with my parents.
"I found out accidentaly that while my uncle was away in Canada, my á
aunt had been bedding a young man on a regular basis."
When I learnt that my best friend had failed the exams.
T.V features showing the violation of defenceless people.
"When my friend who was drunk insulted me in public for no reason at á
all."
"My father is someone I disgust. So when he comes close to me á
a feeling of disgust overwhelms me. When I stay a week-end at my á
parent's place I will remember it for long time."
People who discriminate other people disgust me.
"My parents attitude towards each other when they should become á
reconciled, despite my father's long-time addiction."
"When a person saw that I was accused of something I had not done á
and did not do anything to defend me."
"When an uncle of mine who is very ill started to cough wich á
sounded very dirty. (He can't help it of course)."
"When I went to the clinic for a medical check-up and saw the way á
the lecturer was conducting the lecture and the kind of responses á
he got from the patients."
"A teacher was very blunt in his relation to a child so that the á
child was very upset when arriving at home."
"At a certain person's lack of cleanliness, at home and á
personally."
The behaviour of people spitting everywhere.
"I saw a terrible accident in which the driver of a motor was á
thrown through the frontwindow of a car. His face was completely á
away."
I witnessed a scene in which two women were abusing each other.
"A friend had a quarrel with the mother of her boyfriend because á
she and her friend decided to go and live together. She needed á
money for removal, then she made a great effort to reconcile."
"I heard a broadcasting programme about parapsychology. The people á
in this programme used very difficult words which I couldn't á
understand. They acted exaggerated without showing any feeling."
"Every time I meet a certain person. We cannot get on well á
together, we dislike each other."
When I was studying and someone disturbed me.
"When my parents behave very ""witty"" towards me, they make insipid á
jokes about which they laugh. Or my mother who treats me like a á
little child."
"When my elder brother failed form five in 1968 when I was 5 years á
old."
"A story I heard recently about a baby dying after sexual á
abuse."
When the summer holiday job was almost over.
"When I was about to clean the draining board and saw it looked á
underneath the sink (I live in a students hostel)."
"There is a person whom I disgust. Evrey time I see her I get this á
terrible feeling I disgust her whole appearance."
When my father shouted at me for going to a party with my sister.
"The stories about my aunt who was beaten and humiliated by my á
uncle."
When my parents insisted that I take up a teaching career.
"When I failed the entrance exam of the medical school and was á
studying biochemistry which has no job prospects in Zambia."
"At the police centre a man between 40-50 was brought in.  He was á
very drunk and in all likelihood had not slept indoors for a long á
time and had relieved himself in his trousers."
"I felt disgusted when we (family) avoided a problem which could á
be solved readily."
First anatomy lesson.
"When I take a look into a slaughter-house and when listening to á
stories about torturing people or animals."
"A friend and a girlfriend went to Rome for 10 days with their á
class. When they were back home I heard people tell ""strange"" á
stories about my friend and that girlfriend."
Dead rat in the kitchen of the university.
"When I was travelling to school by bus, I went past a place á
where a sewer had been repaired.  There was a bad strong smell á
which suffocated me and I wanted to leave the place immediately."
"On school, during a fancy fair, there was a stand of amnesty á
international. There I read (for the first time) a description of á
the tortures of a woman, what they did to her."
"Disgust is a feeling that I have never experienced with peoplie á
but , on the other hand, it has been with repulsive animals, i;e á
snakes on T.V."
People talking in an important lecture.
"When I saw a documentary film about World War II (about Hitler á
and his adepts)."
"Each time I am confronted with reports about repression and á
torture."
"I wanted to take something from under my bed. While doing this I á
felt a dead bird laying under my bed."
When junior doctors returned to work after bunking them.
"I lived together with my boyfriend. One night he stayed away and á
next day he told me that he had chat up with another girl."
"When I was a teacher in an evening school, a girl raised a lot of á
questions and expressed her opinions.  She, very often, took a á
stand which was different from mine and she thought that it á
was better than mine.  Her opinions were helpful academicall"
"When working in a chemical laundry, I saw rats and maggots in the á
washing."
"When a classmate of ours knocked on our door at 2 o'clock in the á
morning.  I was disgusted at his behaviour."
"Being on view in a meat-factory. Pigs being cut open, pigs being á
suspended from nods, blood everywhere, decompsition."
"When I watched TV and saw a performance of ""Prince"" (a popidol). á
Disgusting he'd better be a stallion."
"I had some sort of a stomach virus last week and  I vomited in á
college in the morning, then in the cake shop, three times during á
the trip home and again when I got home."
Seeing a person panhandling money on Telegraph.
"I broke an egg, with which there was something wrong, into a á
little cup. There was a thick white ""wad"" in it. I tried to take á
it out and throw it in the sink."
"I read a book about torture. The book described exactly how the á
torturing was done."
"When a close friend of mine maintained a relationship with me á
till she needed me and broke it off when she did not need me.  á
She behaved life a really selfish person.  "
"When a girl in my class (on the secondary school) appeased the á
teacher, resulting in getting a higher grade. This occurred often á
with her."
Spit and vomit.
"It is very difficult to relate it to a certain event. I am á
familiar with the disgust of Sartre (la nausTe), a frequently á
occurring cause may be described as ""the self-assured dullness""."
"I felt very disgusted at a friend to whom I had given a Psychology á
book to read, and she did not care to give me back the book á
during the exams."
"When I read about or think about environmental pollution, the á
armor race, starvation, etc. Then one realizes that mankind is á
bad, most important is power and money, at the cost of nature and á
mankind."
"Bisshop Ter Schure intoduced himself on TV to the Dutch Nation. á
He spoke as if he was God himself, and didn't discuss the way he á
had achieved this position."
"A study visit to a chicken factory : the butchery, the smell, á
the environment and the noise."
"When I was giving private tutorials to my student; he would not á
concentrate and was lazy.  He had not done the home work that I  á
had assigned and his academic level was very low.  It was a á
nuisance."
"When my cat vomited and a worm came out which was still alive.  I á
was forced to wipe it up."
"A fellow student who seemed very nice later on proved to be a á
slimy fellow towards a professor."
"When I saw a drunk man urinate upon himsellf and he seemed to be á
thoroughly content with it."
Noisy people in the library.
When programmes on violence or pornography are shown on T.V.
Seeing someone who has bleeding nose.
In a disco, there was a dirty little chap who punched my bottom.
Some students trying to please the lecturer.
"A film were a woman was attacked and raped.  One did not see the á
worst but it had the desired effect - very strong."
"Salo, a movie film by Pasolini. People were misused and tortured á
for the fun of a few elder Italian authorities, during World War á
II."
"At the crowded conditions of living.  I always quarrel with my á
elder brother as he puts the T.V volume at a deafening level and á
I can not practise my piano lessons.  Thus I feel that my home is á
disgusting."
Saw a dead rat on the street.
Cueing for bath for a long time.
"At work when I did not get the full co-operation of my colleagues á
to complete an assignment."
Someone vomited on the street.
On seeing a scene of an accident in a magazine.
[ No response.]
"A friend of mine remembered me when she needed me and did not á
even think about me when she did not need me."
"When a very dirty class-mate farted in my  presence.  There was a á
terrible smell."
When I saw a scene on T.V where a castration was shown.
[ No response.]
"Once while studying for my exam I found so many complicated words á
that it disgusted me."
"[ I feel disgust at people lying.  It means that they say one á
thing to one person and the same thing in another way to another á
person and this makes people quarrel among themselves.]"
Whenever I see an alcoholic.
When I am dirty because I have not had a shower for a few days.
"[ I would classify subjectively, a certain gesture or the way of á
talking of a person as disgusting or inacceptable.]"
"I had a class-mate who was rather stupid.  I did not like him á
but I respected him.  When he tried to talk to someone, they á
would not listen to him and I could not bear seeing this."
"After joining my M.A in Social Sciences, I appeared for the first á
semester exam.  I failed one of the exams, and when I looked at á
my results I felt disgusted and then I got angry."
When I see rotten meat.
If a guy one is not interested in makes advances.
When I saw someone eating live worms.
When I saw a lot of rubbish and animal waste on the floor.
"My notes were not returned to me, it kept on being á
procrastinated."
"A few days after I had finished the relationship with my á
boyfriend, we had a quarrel. Then he hit me. At that moment I á
found him disgusting."
"When I was working as a nurse in a mental hospital, a patient ate á
up the contents of another patient's spitoon."
I had to change a baby's clothes for the first time.
"I used to play with a group of classmates and I found out later á
that they were cheap in thought, behaviour and conduct - they á
would smoke, fight and speak foul language.  I thought that they á
destroyed the image of college students."
[ Normally I do not feel disgusted.]
When I saw a very disagreable scene.
"When I was studying in the library a pair of lovers were sitting á
next to me talking in an intense and soft voice.  They were á
disturbing others."
"I was disgusted at the way the bus conductor threw out an old á
woman oiut of the mini-bus simply because she could not pay the á
fare for her luggage."
When I see dead dogs on the road.
The same as in SHAME.
Pictures of Nazi extermination camps on a T.V program.
Dog dirt which thaws in the spring.
"Some people whom I do not like at all, and one of the reasons is á
their physical appearance."
"A girlfriend of mine behaves in a very childish way - she does á
not like my going to see a friend who has been introduced to me á
by this same friend of mine.  I would like to be friends with á
both of them, but she does not like this as she is possessiv"
"When I saw a film where a black was rapeing a girl while another one was á
filming it for a pornographic movie."
"My mother was very angry with my little sister and told her to á
put her hands on the table in order to beat her hands up. She á
forced by means of her power."
[ Can not think of any situation.]
"I saw someone that I thought I knew repeatedly drunk. I do not á
like to be around alcoholics."
A young man was insulting and humiliating a drunken man.
When I see people who have no sentiments.
"I was listening to a priest in church saying how sinful man was, á
and how all men should renounce their desires and pleasures to á
please God. I could never understand how something that brings you á
joy could be a sin."
"When I was a child, one day while playing, I fell up to my waist á
in mud."
[ Can not remember.]
"When I committed a sin mentioned in ANGER. A sin of sexual á
immorality."
When I got to know the details if the famine in East Africa.
"I felt disgusted at my teams poor perfomance prior to league á
play."
"When a ""friend"" woke me up in the middle of a blessful sleep by á
knocking on the door.  Then he started calling me names and á
saying that he had heard that I had been talking behind his back, this á
was a lie and the guy was drunk to the core."
"When I see that some people remain cold and egoistic with regard á
to close friends, even in situations that those friends need á
them."
Seeing a pornographic movie in which animals were used.
"When my room-mate made a mess of the room after having drunk the á
whole night at a graduation party ceremony."
I saw a dog who was eating excrements.
"When I read a newspaper article on a young girl who had been á
raped and assaulted one night by several men when she was unconscious."
"I read a story in the newspaper about butchers treating their á
animals very badly. They disgusted me."
"I went to spend a night with a relative of mine and there I á
found that the bed had been wet the previous night."
When I ate a rotten apple.
"In a study group, a person always liked to argue on some á
unimportant, irrelevant and minor points.  He tried to persuade    á
others in an unfriendly way.  He was obstinate and would not accept  á
other's point of view."
"I was hitch-hiking when a man stopped and gave me a lift to á
Nijmegen. During the ride he asked me whether I was in for fun. á
The man was fat and tatooed."
"A girl who also hires a room in the house where I live always á
tries to make a quarrel with everyone available she disgusts me."
"My classmate got a ""B"" for his homework while I only got a ""C"".  á
When we got the results he acted as if he did not merit this á
grade.  I found that his humility was hypocritical and I found it á
disgusting."
"I feel disgust when hearing or seeing other people being treated á
inhumanely. For example torturing in chili."
"When I heard that a woman of my community had aborted and got rid á
of the foetus by throwing it in the drain."
"I felt disgust after watching a picture on television about á
torturing political prisoners in India (this happened in the á
India of Indira Ghandi)."
"When a member of the family complains about the food that is á
served, it disgusts me."
"I heard part of a conversation in which one talked very low about á
women."
"After the accident which I described in SHAME. I came to myself á
and saw how terrible everything looked like. I disgusted myself á
and everything I saw."
"When I was accused of having impregnated someone's daughter, it á
was the girl's cousin who had done it. "
"It was a narrow and dirty passage which was located near the á
market and I had to stand there to wait for people."
"I was looking at a one-man show on television. He told very á
disgusting things so that I started to be disgusted with it. á
(Later on it proved that this was his intention)."
"When I slept with a guy because my best friend wanted me to.  á
He had never had intercourse with anyone and had a terrible á
complex about it."
"When a student accused me of having stolen his textbook  as he á
had found a form bearing my name in his other books and all my á
explanations fell on deaf ears."
"One evening when a boy who was drunk made a pass at me by trying á
to kiss me."
"I cannot remember exactly such a situation. But I know that á
once I went to a very dirty lavatory and that disgusted me."
"A tiresome person held me up all day long.  I was very busy then á
(I can not remember what the problem was).  He continously tried á
to make me talk to him and disturbed me."
When I saw a dog which had been knocked down by a car.
When one of my friends started misbehaving.
"I read a newspaper report that a little boy was forced to look á
while his sister was raped."
"When I made love with someone who I didn't really love. Sometimes á
I even considered him unlikable."
"I was disgusted to discover that my girlfriend of few weeks was á
already fooling around with another guy.  I was disappointed as á
the guy was a rogue and I respected my girlfriend."
"When people are eating unsavoury (smacking, belching, speaking á
with food in their mouth, etc.)."
When I failed my first biochemistry test.
"Someone told me a story of Amnesty International: a boy was á
killed and his head was put in the litter of his girlfriend. It á
looked as if she was pregnant, then she died. It is disgusting, I á
can hardly write it down."
"I was shopping in Utrecht with friends, we also ate some chips á
and snacks in a snackbar, then we saw a shabby fellow. He took a á
cold half eaten croquette (a snack) from a rubbish bin and eat á
it."
"A  group of youngsters dressed in fads talked foul language on a á
bus.  They also insulted the  pedestrians on the road and were á
impolite to the passengers of the bus."
"One night I saw a man being knocked down by two other men. The á
victim was kicked against his head."
"I was eating in the dinning hall and some women joined me.  I á
could not eat with them so I left the dinning hall."
"A scene in a film in which one man repressed another one. By á
concidence, their position was reversed. The other man was á
repressed in an identical way as he did before."
"I was forced to stay in the canteen and eat the food that I had á
not asked for but got it anyway."
When I had to finish those big amounts of homework in time.
"I went to the shopping centre to buy something and saw packets of á
Kapenta  with maggots in them. Oh !"
"When once again I drank too much and felt very rotten the morning á
after."
"In a warm bus full of people, someone vomited and the whole bus á
stank."
When I was on holiday someone vomited in front of me.
[ When mix was coming from column for several days.]
"I felt disgusted one day when, as we were eating, a child á
defecated on the table side."
"When I found out how the people of Ethiopia were starving and á
their government was spending millions on celebrating being in á
power so many years. Then I saw all these people on TV needing á
food, etc."
"When I opted for my research field, for them the percentage of á
marks was more important than my knowledge."
"When I attended school, our class visited an institution for á
mentally and physically handicapped persons. Although I tried to á
control my feelings, I was disgusted."
Some students talking when other people are having a nap.
"Viewing the results of senseless vandalism to a local primary á
school."
As a child, when I saw an "unesthetic" sight.
"We were at a hamburger bar and a man at a table nearby started á
coughing and spitting into his plate."
"Returning home in the late afternoon I saw an indecent act made á
by a man with the purpose that I saw it."
"When I discovered my mother had been having an affair with my á
father's best friend, and then ran away with him without even á
speaking to me about what she was doing letting me come home from á
school simply to find her gone. I was filled with disgust a"
"I felt disgusted when my appointment to meet the E.N.T. á
specialist had been turned down. The specialist came from U.K. á
and went the same day and we do not have one."
"My mother called me because she had read through the enveloppe a letter á
addressed to me.  She denied having read it intentionally and á
said ""the words just popped out through the enveloppe as the sun á
was shining on it"". Hah Hah."
"I have an adopted Aboriginal sister I felt disgust due to the á
racism she has been subjected to."
Saw an arrogant girl walking pass by.
"I was sitting in a station-hall and watching a lavatory á
attendant. She was very dirty. She started to eat something out á
of a dirty cup - it must have been something like lard. Then she á
took some breadcrumbs out of the pockets of her apron and ate á
"
"[ Honestly, I have never felt disgust at any situation in my á
life.]"
"At a party I met a girl who drew me to her, told me some nonsense á
and always wanted to kiss me."
"I was disgusted at myself when I dropped a vital catch, while á
playing a cricket match, and we lost the match; though the catch á
was difficult. "
A dirty person, smelling bad and unknown laying on me.
"While watching the movie called ""Deer hunter"" on TV, when it á
showed how prisoners were treated."
"When I red a report in the magazine VESA about an Iranian telling á
what she had lived in the prisons in Iran. I felt disgust about á
that people."
"I went out with my sister, her boyfriend and his friend. I did á
not like this young man. But suddenly he overcame me and kissed á
me. He was very strong so that I could not defend myself."
Hear people talking at my back.
I felt disgust of dirty.
"I went to a party with my boyfriend who got so drunk and started á
vomiting. It was so disgusting."
A saturday night a bus full of drunken people.
"On Reperbahn, in a restaurant, a ""charming"" old saleswoman came á
to beg a drink for herself."
"I received a letter which was too strong for me. It said I had á
done something which I really didn't do."
"A teacher giving a test was called by a student by his first á
name. He (the teacher) said that he didn't give him this liberty."
"I went to a restaurant with my boyfriend for dinner. There we saw á
a couple. the man of the couple was a negro and he hadn't manners á
for eat."
Cueing for a bus and the drivers having long dinner.
"On a trip abroad, a lady-like member of our group turned out to á
be an alcoholic.  She spoilt many days of my holidays because of á
her behaviour and paranoia."
[ No response.]
"At the butcher's I saw an animal which had just been slaughtered; á
blood was dripping on the floor."
When I was molested by an old drunk man.
When I happen to witness some sadistic acts.
Disgust with a subordinate.
"A railways officer, when asked by the ticket checker to produce á
his tickets, got very aggressive and started abusing and using á
his authority in a very wrong way."
"I was disgusted with my brother's behaviour when he kept throwing á
things away because of his anger, after mum had shouted at him."
I was on a walk with my child when I met a drunk woman.
"A friend of mine was telling jokes which I felt to be very á
disgusting, especially because I was eating."
"Saw someone who picked up a cigarette from the floor and smoked á
it."
"One of my flatmates and I came back to the flat Monday morning, á
to find a real Mess, left by the guy we share with."
"When Kanishka was blown up, I really felt disgusted at people á
killing each other."
[ When some people act very important in any situation.]
A rich man expressing disgust towards an alcoholic.
"When I was watching some scenes from the Bertoluchi's film á
""Twentieth Century""."
"Several years ago I stayed with friends in the mountains for one á
week. We lived in a hut and had to cook for ourselves. One day my á
friend did not succeed in preparing spaghetti. That dinner was á
terrible - nevertheless we all ate rather much and had "
"I felt disgusted when my cousin decided that she would stop á
going to school saying she wanted to get married. She was only 14 á
years by then and she didn't understand what she was thinking."
[ Do not remember any incident.]
Saw someone messing up our room.
"When I watched a film about the problems of abandoned children á
(PIXOTE)."
A very drunk person.
Saw someone licking his dining bowl.
Someone I know and respect sexually assulted a girl.
When my fellow classmates were involved in a quarrel.
"I was sitting at a rock concert, listening to an extremely loud á
band. A tiny baby in a crawler had been left by his young mother, á
right out in the sun next to a speaker, and was screaming - á
probably in pain."
"I was disgusted when our cricket team manager dropped me from the á
team."
"When a friend didn't invite her own parents to her Graduation á
ceremony."
"I studied medicine for several semesters. I was always disgusted á
when we had the dissecting-course. I cannot understand why some á
persons like this course."
"In the army, an acquaintance of mine tended to use his position á
to advance his own interests."
"When I saw hundreds of snakes twisting over one another in a á
movie."
"Being in a Malaysian city with my girlfriend coming out of a á
picture theatre - seeing her rush up to a taxi that a very old á
sick man was trying to get to. Seeing her take over the taxi."
A man whom I like, was drunk and tried to molest me.
Saw my father with that woman he is married to now.
"On my way to a concert I went with a man who tried to molest me. á
At that moment I did not care much but now the impression fills á
me with disgust."
When one of my parents verbally, personally abused the other.
"In my village there was this tax collector who used to cheat á
people and collected more than was wanted, the surplus was for á
his family and himself."
"There was a family fight in my house some time back.  My uncle á
had given me a watch as a present and I lost it.  During the á
fight he accused me of having sold the watch.  I was disgusted at á
his false accusations."
"Someone smoking on Electric train (Electric trains are á
non-smoking) with alcohol smell coming from person.  "
"When I watched a report about El Salvador on TV, I saw people who á
had been murdered by terrible methods."
"When I lost the notes of the lecturer I had borrowed from my á
friend."
My roommate boasting about her English lectures.
Someone I do not like kept talking to me.
Cueing in the students dining hall.
"I felt this situation when a certain woman from a close village á
shouted at my mother because she didn't get what she wanted, she á
wanted some salt to put in her relish."
"No very strong such emotion. Treatment of my sister by her á
dancing instructor - he is a ""user"", i.e., takes advantage of her á
good nature."
"I felt disgust toward meat when I felt sick with the steak after á
a week only on meat."
"I feel disgust towards those who are responsible for the death of á
others."
When I felt the smell of industries that pollute.
"There is a girl at my work that doesn't take care much of her á
hygiene she comes always with her hair oiled, a not very agreable á
smell, and a bad appearance. Beside this she tries to be nice."
Maltreatment of children.
"I was sitting in school, waiting for my sister to go home. Suddenly a á
boy put fire in a paper and threw it were I was sitting. The á
paper didn't get me, but I felt terribly disgusted at this á
cowardliness and irresponsibility that caused a great á
dis"
"While walking on the street with a good friend of mine, we met an á
acquaintance of hers.  My friend started showing off and telling á
false stories about herself and praising herself."
"On boat trip - saw mother giving young child (aprox 6-7 years) á
cigarettes."
"The first day I visited the hospital I was disgusted because I á
experienced offensive smell which I never expected. I nearly ran á
away from the course."
"One day I was walking with my boyfriend. We met my ex-boyfriend á
and out of jealousy he started calling me names."
"After a serie of facts that occurred between a colleague and me I á
started to feel a certain necessity to get apart and I didn't want á
to see her anymore."
"This happened when I could not get into the school I had á
initially wanted, and ended up doing something I had never á
thought I would do."
"I had experienced odd moments one time when a patient came into á
the Ward in which I was working. The patient was badly burnt in á
the right side of her body. I was very nervous at the sight."
"One day my friend told me that she had heard that I was moving á
about with her boyfriend. I was disgusted with the news."
The sadistinc exacution of a student in the USA.
"My elder sister forced me to do a few things which I did not like á
to do."
When I saw a spider.
"At a discussion a friend took a ""faschistic view"", what I had not á
expected."
"When my oldest sister discovered that her boyfriend had another á
girl."
"I felt disgusted when I was in a helpless position at the loss of á
my fiancee."
"Four weeks ago I felt very much touched to find an asciatic á
patient who had asked the very morning to be tapped of the fluid, á
dying in the evening. I was really disgusted because this was the á
Medical staff's negligence. Had the Clinical officers don"
Seeing a pornographic film when looking for a place to live.
People spitting in railway stations.
"Some time ago a girl tried to make me up without any action of my á
part. She used all possible means. Although I behaved refusingly á
she did not give up for a longer time."
"After the first of May, I detested my fiance's friends, who had á
piled on to our party and spoilt it completely."
"Finding out that some students are getting good reports they do á
not deserve."
"[ There have been very few instances of disgust, as far as I can á
remember they are not important or worth mentioning.]"
"In a certain occasion I saw a dog in the street eating something á
so strange gooey that I wasn't able to eat lunch because I á
remembered the scene all the time."
"When a boy had continued to use foul language and swearing in á
front of a group of my friends."
"I was travelling, we were 15 person, one of them I met at the á
travel and didn't like her. One night I was asleep while she and á
her friends were talking too loud in the kitchen. I got up to ask for á
silence and since that day I felt constant disgust f"
"I saw a film where snakes were crawling everywhere. I felt them á
crawling over all my body with that ... skins. The noise that á
they did disturbed me very much."
Disgust of drunkers and of blood.
"When I heard about the advances an acquaintance of mine had made á
to my friends, who did not approve of them."
"When I went in a clinical hospital and saw in what conditions á
people are attended there."
Someone had stolen an article from a library journal.
"When I saw a woman subjugated by money and not being able to hide á
how she hated herself for not having the will power to get out of á
such a situation because it was convenient, according to what she á
told me."
"Finding out that old and useless practitioners of retirement age á
will go to your English lectures and they do not understand á
English."
"When my friends and I were camping in a weekend, and with little á
food, we met a middle age couple from a small town that invited á
us to eat in their house. Their house was small, badly built with á
old and dirty forniture and utensils. The problem was "
Overeating a traditional type of food - blood pudding.
My brother caught a spider and let his frog eat it.
"When some friends and I get acquainted a guy during vacations I á
thought he was disgusted and ""a friend"" of mine for whom I feel a á
little disgust wanted to stay with him."
"When a ""friend"" dropped a frog down my neck, and I didn't know á
what it was."
Saw a real party leader.
I felt disgust of my father when I knew he had a lover.
"I have a horror of spiders and snakes. On a walk through the wood á
I saw the body of a slow-worm (without the head)."
"I had a discussion with my wife about an over-weight acquaintance of á
our's, about her eating habits and the scars caused by her á
pregnancy."
"I had this feeling when I met a girl, not that she was dirty but á
she was to ""fresh"", dump and childish."
"Saw my class leader acting like a God when he chose people to go á
to your English lectures."
"When I was a child I broke plates because I wasn't given food on á
the grounds of coming home late."
"A nightmare.  I was dreaming about bloodsuckers, which I tried to á
shake off from my body, they are everywhere, they get glued, they á
suck.  And there are a lot of them.  I panic."
Whenever I see a spider or a snake I feel disgusted.
"When I knew that a person who I didn't like, had about me other á
feelings."
"I assisted to a scene where the police attacked a person that á
didn't have his documents. The savagery was too much, and the á
attacked person bleeded to much."
"In contact with a poor family of northeast it was offered to me a á
crab to eat at my request. But the fact that this crab was á
prepared antihygienically and his appearence was also á
antihygienically it caused me disgust but I ate it anyway."
My roommate's lack of consideration of me.
"The time when I cleaned the house and everything was tidy, á
then my cousin, who is 4 years old, came with a muddy pot and made á
a mess of the whole thing."
Bad temper of the serving lady in the students' dining hall.
"I felt disgusted when somebody told me that my previous boyfriend á
was her boyfriend."
Does not apply.
Someone not responding to my criticism.
"A situation where I ignored my beliefs and principles for a trip á
of whimsy."
Doing this pointless questionnaire.
"The acts of brutal violence in generally disgusts me. Fights, á
phisical aggrssion, etc."
"In a sexual experience with an unknown woman where after the á
sexual act I only could go away without looking backwards."
When a girl that I liked didn't accept my curting.
"A teacher gave me lower grades than I was entitled to, and was á
hoping for."
"When mum had beaten my young sister just because she had received á
a letter from a boyfriend."
I saw a septic, smelling wound.
"One time at the hospital I passed near the intensive care room. á
The offensive smell that came out disgusted me in such a way that á
I didn't even dare to enter the room."
Someone ruining someone's property just for the fun of it.
"When a friend of mine got drunk and started to blame and scorn my á
other friends and me."
When I became aware that an acquaintance had stolen from friends.
"I was disgusted when I was told to dress a big rotten stinky á
wound which, coming closer, made me feel like vomitting."
Finding out that my best friend was deceiving me.
Some boys not cueing in the dining hall.
"A female friend was violently ill on the return journey from a á
wedding reception we attended. Getting her out of the car when á
home took quite a while."
Viewing the nuclear war film "Threads".
"I was dancing Malipenga (traditional dance). I exaggerated the á
steps I was supposed to make in the negative way. This happened in á
front of spectators. It was bad for our Boma (group) because I á
was on the front line where ability is displayed and it "
"My first day to work in hospital, when I was dressing wounds I á
was disgusted when I came across one wound with a very bad smell."
A lecturer in great detail spoke about his sexual experiences.
"When an unpleasant person tried to make friends with me.  A á
subtle, small, insignificant, grey being whose helplessness and á
neutrality evoked the feeling of disgust in me."
When my father revealed inconsistent morals.
"The male friend of my mother (a widow) moved in to live with us.  á
I did not like the man."
"I saw a drunk man tottering behind his wife and insulting her á
awfully."
"It was when my father beat my mother while she was ill for three á
weeks and now she was recovering."
"A drunk man bumped into me and wanted to grip me. Fortunately I á
was able to break loose."
Saw people quarreling in a bus.
"An acquaintance of mine revealed himself in a light unexpected to á
me."
"When I was in the army, we got a certain dish for dinner that I á
do not like at all. We were not obliged to eat, but I was very á
hungry."
"When I found out some family friends were embezzelling the á
company they worked for - using company petrol and food supplies á
and claiming furniture and crockery."
"I was travelling in a local train when a drunkard, smelling á
terribly, entered the same carriage and started eating fish that á
was stinking."
"I felt disgust when I received visitors at an odd hour. I was á
seriously preparing for Examinations, so I did not appreciate á
their coming."
"I felt disgust when I saw a friend walking in stagnant water á
without putting on gum boots."
"When I was walking on the street, I slipped on the dung of a dog. á
I did not fall down, but I felt disgusted by the bad smell on my á
sole."
"Discovering a good friend had lied to me, resulting in a á
detrimental relationship with another person."
Girls dressed like foreigners in the university.
"We had friends to dinner and one of them threw a beer bottle in á
the air, and it bounced on an expensive table and damaged the á
table .The person did not apologise."
"I was disgusted to see a person vomitting and I was told to clean á
the place where the vomit was."
A friend of mine came to see me when he was quite drunk.
"When after a party celebrating a friend's 21st birthday - upon á
leaving I found 10 people outside throwing up and further 4 á
unconscious."
"When an untidy and heavyly drunk person made endeavours to á
approach me."
"I read about a murderer who brutalized his victims by cutting á
open their stomaches and taking out their bowels."
"A sister broke a cup and when mother asked I was reported to have á
been responsible."
"When I worked at the life-saving service I was disgusted by a á
patient whose outward appearance was distasteful."
"At a social event when none of the guests would help to serve á
food or clear tables. It was all beneath them."
"In May somebody blamed me that I made him to be caught while á
peeping during the Nursing Test which made me feel disgusted."
"When I heard about the way a parent of a friend had mistreated á
him, and caused a great instability."
"I felt disgusted when I went to one of the Central hospitals á
where my hope of getting good treatment was turned down by one of á
the doctors who said I was alright despite my feeling pain."
"A colleague and I were sitting on a bench next to an old man in a á
shopping centre. the old man coughed and spluttered somewhat, á
then with his fingers removed the resultant phlegm and mucous á
from his mouth, and transferred it onto the armrest of the "
Watching a violent movie.
"In a film, there was an episode where they used a chain saw to á
cut a man.  I could not look at it, but I could not avoid á
listening either.  I sought shelter in my boyfriend's arms."
"Disgust with oneself after being intoxicated enough to go to bed á
with a stranger."
When I vomitted a lump of blood.
"Disgust at a girl I know for continually feeling sorry for herself á
and never acting positively to do something about her problems."
"In ward 2A there was a patient suffering from Syphilitic á
Paraplegia and had pressure sores. The wounds had offensive smell á
that only a few people .... the place."
"A friend once reacted childishly (he is 23 yearrs old) to my not á
responding in his favour to a request, that is: he asked me for á
some money I refused, and his reaction was quite childish."
"When an acquaintance of mine told me about the way his parents á
treated their sons in an unequal manner.  The most successful of á
them got continuous encouragement, and the youngest was not á
encouraged and was rejected."
"Foreign students playing loud music in the night before the á
biology examn."
"Accidentally seeing a friend in a compromising situation with a á
stranger."
"I was really disgusted when I saw one of my friends soiling on á
his clothes. I thought he was mad."
The price I was charged for work on my car.
"I think I have hardly had a situation where I felt disgusted. á
Perhaps once, when I saw a big spider."
"When an acquaintance (he was drunk) of my room-mate vomitted on the kitchen á
carpet.  It was past mid-night and my room-mate had just moved in, á
this acquaintance had helped her move in.á
"
"When I entered the wound intensive care at the Central Hospital á
in Blantyre which was stinking."
"On my way home in the middle of the night I saw a drunk man and a á
woman who were quarreling, beating each other, shouting and so á
on. I felt disgusted especially because they treated each other á
in such a degrading way."
"A girl with whom I was staying having sex with a person for about á
3 nights running, and then with his brother the following night, á
and back again."
"One of those days when I was going to school with my brother and á
he annoyed me."
"A series about Freud was shown on TV.  In it, a tampon had been á
set in the nose of a woman, and forgotten there.  After great á
pain it was taken off (close-up picture), the woman was bleeding á
from the nose and the mouth."
"I discovered some pornographic literature in a workmates drawers. á
The literature featured pictures of naked women defecating on one á
another."
"At a party I saw two persons having a fight. The aggressions and á
the hate between these persons produced an unpleasant impression á
on me."
"3 years ago I served in the army. Once a collegue denounced me á
because of a delict, which is usually committed. I was arrested á
for 3 days. I still detest this man."
"A condition in which I was disgusted followed when I lost money á
on my way home from the college."
Saw Chinese people flattering foreigners.
"Disgust with myself for consistently making foolish errors in á
communicating with others (asking for 1/2 Kg of nuts when I only á
wanted 50 g)."
"I realised that someone was insidiously attempting to shit me off á
I was disgusted with him for doing so, because I afforded him á
with no excuse to do so."
[ The same as in anger.]
Saw some girls dressed up like Americans
"It was when I drunk urine during my childhood thinking it was á
water. My friend had urinated in the tin."
When I heard about a murder of a 16-year-old girl.
When somebody made me touch human faeces.
"I was stopped from entering a party while I was at School but I á
had an Invitation card with me. This was done because they said I á
was too young to join elderly people."
"My friend promised to take me out for a movie but he didn't turn á
up."
"I detested my father who was a drunkard.  He would rave, á
threaten and blame my mother and me.  He finally drove us away á
from home."
"The time I went to see one of my girlfriends at Area 18 I found á
that she was not there but in the room she was sleeping, in the same á
room there were some women visitors with children so the room was á
smelling very badly with some faeces and urine in "
Saw a man dressed as a woman.
Person talking about a situation while eating.
A man spat on the wall of a house.
"In cinema I saw a film which showed how a person was torn out his á
guts when he was still alive."
"On a camp - boys and girls in one cabin. One guy forced himself á
upon another girl and was having intercourse, while the girl in á
the bunk beneath was pretending to be asleep and not be ill."
"When I saw a male engineer one year and came back to find he was á
now a female (I don't know it/them personally)."
"When I noticed that a nice person was being exploited á
economically."
"I stayed at the Coast for a weekend with friends. My brother came á
to drive me home, but was rude, and in a hurry to rejoin his á
friends. I was embarrassed because the family involved was á
extremely nice, and hospitable to him."
"At my grandmother's detestable and selfish conduct towards my á
elder sister, although her behavior was due to senility and lack of á
understanding."
"Finding out that the class leader can go to your lectures, and á
his English is worse than mine."
"When walking along the beach with my boyfriend, we saw 2 people á
having sex on the sand dunes in full view of everyone. It was the á
fact that they chose that area in which to have sex, that á
disgusted me."
"I was disgusted with the behaviour of one of my fellow students á
during my Secondary School life. He was a habitual noise-maker á
and caused great conflicts with the teachers."
"Normally my father never tells vulgar jokes, we do not speak á
about sexual things, too. But once he told such a vulgar joke, á
that I was really disgusted. He did not tell me, but some of his á
friends, but I was present."
"When I have seen people very drunk and making fools of á
themselves."
"I was disgusted with my girlfriend's behaviour. She was going out á
with other boys who were also my friends."
"While reading Olli Jalonen's new book, the distant, cold and á
selfish relationships between people (in the book) made me feel á
disgusted."
"In the bus I was sitting next to a colleage who was drunk and á
behaved in keeping with his state."
"I felt the emotion when I entered a certain ward in the hospital á
to visit my relative who was sick."
"To go through the underground way at suburb station of LAPA. Poor á
people and the ambulants badly dressed up in a passage badly á
kept."
"On TV I saw a report about church in Amerika. A priest was shown á
who was performing miracles in front of the camera - I felt á
disgusted."
Saw a very arrogant girl walking like a queen.
"When I see all the putridness of people. The fact is the catarrh á
and spits that whash the streets of S.Paulo."
When I got indecent offers.
"I saw a program on T.V where they had to saw a skull for an        á
operation."
"I felt disgusted when I was not given money for lunch at school á
by my father as a punishment for beating my little brother."
To be kissed by soembody I didn't expect to.
A too eager approach by a dirty drunken person in a bus.
"When a very near person got into an awkward situation but showed á
only helplessness and indecision."
"In Ward 1A was an epileptic patient who was burnt the whole body á
and was stinking very much such that the whole ward was affected. á
Few people could come near him."
"A person that eat half of a cockroach in a cake without knowing á
it."
"Doctors ignored relative who complained about pain, and is now á
dying of cancer."
"I went to a party and there were some cakes which weren't good á
and had a bad smell."
"One of my best friends was found lying flat on the road because á
he was drunk and was taken by the police and put in a cell. I á
went to see him the following morning, the place was really a á
mess and was smelling badly. I didn't like it."
Saw people spitting in public.
"During the PY 102 film session on Tuesday, one of the films shown  á
was of an experiment on a live cat involving strapping it into a á
machine for possibly days, and doing things to its brain."
"When I was a child, I was sometimes forced to eat things that á
disgusted me."
"At school, when the only thing people my age could think of was getting á
rolling drunk. They couldn't have a good time without firstly á
getting drunk."
"I felt disgusted at the environment while getting back to my á
student lodging. I did not see anything in the suburb which had á
been planned by taking people's comfort into account."
"After buying a ticket, I lost it before I reached my destination á
and the bus Inspector dropped me at a place I didn't know."
"I was disgusted when my brother was arrested because of stealing á
money."
"Someone told me he was chosen for the English lectures because he á
was a good friend of the class leader."
"While watching a film of an experimental operation on a cat's á
brain in which the cat had metal pieces protruding from its eyes, á
mouth etc. to keep the head stable while being cut open."
Someone being arrogant to me.
"When I heard that one of my good friends, when at a party, had á
got herself involved with some very undesirable characters and á
was experimenting with drugs."
When I was presumed to have stolen maize from the school garden.
When I worked at the life-saving sevice and saw the first exitus.
"In the army, I had been in hospital for two weeks and as soon as á
I returned to the company, a sergeant ordered me to fetch a load á
on the tractor trailer."
"It happened that one of my best friends just took my shirt á
without my knowledge, I hadn't put it on for many days and I was á
short of clothes."
"Was picking up my father from work and on passing through the á
Valley watched three prostitutes walk up and down waiting for á
someone to pick them up. Clothing was disgusting."
Saw someone spitting in public.
"After a pleasant evening with friends in my flat, one of them did á
not want to leave, because he wanted to sleep with me. He said á
that he had fallen in love with me, that he felt alone and so on."
"I feel disgusted at my cousin, who is bad-mannered, does not know á
how to behave and talk to others, he does not respect elders and á
lies all the time."
"I met a girl (22 years old), married. I liked her. I asked her á
for a date and I kissed her. I discovered that she lived nearby á
where I passed every day. I got amused thinking that her husband á
would be ... or me . I didn't talked to her anymore."
"The emotion came to me when a certain girl who was not polite to á
her mother hit her sister severely."
At a night club watching little tarts trying to earn a living.
"Spoilt, smashed and molded potatoes in the fridge, and having to á
clean up the dish later."
Hearing of a filthy situation over the phone.
"My life-partner is going through a crisis (way of life, old-fashioned values) á
and can only get out of it by talking bold decisions.  I have á
noticed his cowardice and attempts to escape his problems by á
drinking.  I detest his drinking and his being f"
This situation occurred when I entered into a smelling ward.
"I was double crossing Mercy and Maria. They one day came to know á
each other. I was found by Mercy red-haded when I was with Maria."
I was insulted without a reason by a drunk man.
"When I was watching a movie with many violent episodes.  They á
accurately showed the cutting of corpses, etc..."
"My parents inherited an appartment and this made them behave in a á
peculiar manner."
"At my father, when he yelled and accused my sister's friend (over á
the phone) of doing something he didn't do, or know anything á
about."
"I felt disgusted when a certain lady spoke words of sarcasm when á
I was trying to propose to her."
"When a boy whom I refused to be my lover told all his friends á
that I was his girl he has refused me because I was not faithful á
to him."
"When my grandmother was about 80 years old, she lived with us for á
several years. I saw her illness. I did not even want to breath á
the air that smelled of her presence."
"At a party where the boys were telling revolting stories about á
the girls they'd been with."
"I had a quarrel with a friend who lived with me in the same flat. á
He moved out. Before he went he invited me and some friends for a á
drink. At last he was totally drunk and smelled disgusting. á
Besides, he told lies about us and behaved as if he was t"
"Heard some postgraduate students talking about girls being á
unsiutable to do medicine."
"On a trip I passed by a cellulose factory. It was a fine day, á
beautiful landscape; I observed this factory with disgust."
When I was the South Koreans on the TV.
"Several weeks ago, I had problems with friends, I felt disgusted á
by a friend."
"I found a big black beetle in my coffee cup. It was alive big and á
it was moving its limbs."
Close friends talking badly of other friends.
"A similar feeling I felt quite recently while travelling in a á
taxi. The driver treated me roughly and dishonestly - he chose á
the longest route, he overdrawed almost one lev more and he tried á
to be intimate with me."
"I feel disgusted since I am unable to cope with all the wordly á
affairs as I spend much precious time to pursue my hobby and á
to be admist the people I love and long to be with."
"When I saw a lady putting on a pair of trousers, I felt it was a á
disguise according to Malawi culture."
"I felt disgust when I saw a drunkard vomiting very offensive á
matter."
"I felt it when I saw a colleague of mine eating like a beast. At á
the same time he was making gestures, speaking and making the á
hell of a noise."
Saw a dirty street.
Being looked at by someone I do not like.
"Once I offended a friend, instead of her coming to me to ask and á
discuss the matter she was just telling other people about it and á
say all she could about me."
"Political and military trnsgressions around the world, generally á
speaking. This cannot be described through this questionaire."
"I was disgusted with the hypocrisy of my colleagues from the á
group."
"This is an incident that many of us witness in our everyday life á
in a city like Bombay.  One day I was travelling by bus, three á
men dragged two fellows out of the bus.  Once outside they were á
beaten into pulp.  These two fellows, who got beaten, wer"
"I was looking after a dying patient at work one night, a young á
woman, my colleague was talking to her relatives and .... to á
offer them any support emotionally, physically and then sent them á
down to the coffee shop to have a dinner rather than offeri"
"I read a book about the sexual phantasies of women; I read about á
a woman having sexual intercourse with a dog."
"I felt dusgust with a self-iterested person who ruined the life á
of another by means of utterly unfair methods."
"Somebody went around spreading news that I like people with á
money."
"We had a birthday party with 5 friends. One of us frequently used á
hard drugs. On the party I discovered that the other 3 friends á
also used them. While we agreed we would help the big user to á
stop using it."
"One day my colleague misbehaved with me.  I felt disgusted and á
thought to myself that he could only do this because I was a á
woman."
"I was disgusted with a friend's behaviour when she got absolutely á
drunk so that she vomitted all over my house."
[ The previous incident holds good here also.]
"When I entered the dissecting room for the first time. I think I á
felt disgusted mainly because of the bad smell of formaline."
"A drunk man had fallen in the street and he was shouting obscene á
words."
Saw a selfish person doing a selfish thing.
"In a lift a drunken, fat and untidy man tried to make advances at á
me."
"Old man in hospital, hollow-cheeked, only one half of his nose á
and glass-eye, rattling breath."
I caught a glimpse of a black-beetle.
"I was most disgusted when I had to make a nagging three day á
journey recently from Calcutta to Bombay.  It was very boring and á
tiring."
"In a certain book I read about cruelties and violence in prison á
and souteneur circles; I felt especially disgusted when I read á
detailed descriptions of physical and mental torture of less á
powerful people."
"Some people were unfairly treated, because of their á
nationality/colour."
Some students deliberately disobey me as a class leader.
"We had come back from a programme and we were all (three girls)    á
staying over at another girls placce.  One of them started á
passing very nasty and outright bitchy remarks at me.  It was á
brought on by a male colleague's compliments to me, this girl"
"I was working in a classmate's house with a group. A girl began á
to graze her foot against mine under the table."
"I once got a phone call stating ""one of your friend is in jail, á
please come and see him"".  When I went to the jail and saw him, I á
was disgusted."
"I was disgusted when my little sister had been hit badly by her á
friends."
"When I stayed in the house of friends, I washed my face and á
wanted to dry it with a towel. This towel seemed to have been á
used over a long time already. It smelled indefinably awful."
When in my childhood we were forced to take cod-liver oil.
"A friend told me how he managed to win the sympathy of as many á
people as possible. He said he first listened to what they said á
and then he tried to only say things they would like to hear. á
He would never express his own opinion. I felt really disgus"
"When I noticed two spiders running on the floor in different á
directions."
When I heard the bad news about the death of a close person.
"When I saw a man who hadn't the lower .... in a car á
exhibition. He was passing a handkerchief from inside to outside á
of his mouth."
"[ This is an everyday feeling.  Many situational events : causes á
are unclean and dirty environment, illiteracy, poverty and á
neglect of human resources, disgust at the lack of perception on á
the part of us ( educated few) for the lack of drive and dri"
"In school I had difficulties mith mathematics. When I had to work á
for an examination, I really felt disgusted."
"I was very disgusted the first day I went to put a dead body in á
the Mortuary. There were many dead bodies and some were uncovered á
so we had to put on top of the other bodies."
"My main disgust is against codfish because I detest even the á
smell of it."
A woman picked her nose and spit right next to me.
"Having been unjustly punished, I feel disgust towards the person á
responsible."
A drunken man forced me to kiss him.
"The murder of two girls on a school trip to Berlin (and sexual á
crimes generally) a couple of years ago."
"I was told I shouldn't visit my sister because the holiday was á
short."
[ No response.]
"I went to eat at my aunt's house and she served macaroni with a á
horrible appearence. I felt the sensation above. The worst was á
that I was practically obliged to eat."
Doesn't apply.
"A friend prepared a soup with chicken heads and invited me to eat á
it. I saw the eyes staring at me and the tongues hanging out of á
the bills. I was so disgusted that I felt nausea and had to leave á
the room."
Can't remember having had this feeling.
Some foreign students playing loud music late at night.
When the Americans set their nucleaar missiles in Europe.
Someone acting stupid in public.
"When I heard that a 14 years old girl had been raped by four á
rikshaw drivers in our town."
"I was forced to go to a party with someone I didn't love and he á
was telling people that I was his girlfriend."
"I saw a man falling on the walkway. He seemed half dead, and was á
immobile. I felt disgust for the people who passed by without á
doing anything to help."
The disgust I feel towards a certain person.
"My classmate at TISS has the habit of biting his nails and ever á
since my childhood I have never liked this habit.  This person is á
near me in class, dining hall and the campus so I suggested that á
he should stop biting his nails.  However he found it "
"When I saw a fight I had a physical reaction of disgust and of á
deep perturbation."
"I saw a movie called ""The Thing"", the film directed by John á
Carpenter.  The monster in the film made me feel disgusted."
People not cueing in the college dining room.
Disgust at myself when I stroked a sleeping girl's private parts.
"Yesterday in the elevator a man started smoking, this is á
something I just can not tolerate."
"Bus driver driving roughly - old man fell off seat into aisle - á
driver wouldn't stop - disgusted with her behaviour."
"My husband falls ill and does not follow the doctor's advice on á
the treatment or the diet control."
"Waiting for a bus not coming for a long time, and the bus drivers á
were having a long lunch."
"The way my husband and his family treated me - unfairly, cruelly, á
and unjustly."
"There is a certain person, whom I only have seen. He makes me á
cringe, feel disgust."
A wurm dropped on my head.
"I was disgusted at the existing red-tape in the government á
offices.  I accquired my passport three months after having applied for á
it and I had to go back five times to them to correct a minor á
error."
"I stayed for several weeks with a friend of mine before she moved á
to live with her husband. One evening he came drunk and made an á
awful scene, which I still remember."
"I once watched the series called ""Dynasty"" on TV, and I detested á
it."
When I saw our computer teacher.
I am disgusted with liers, hypocrites, slanderers, flunkeys.
"[ I feel disgusted at people who talk negatively about a person á
without knowing the person well.]"
"Sort of awkward. I'd introduced (a lover) but introduced as a á
friend to some members of my family, and my niece Yavanna who's á
six was home from school and at Mum's and Dad's and was really á
silly and at first it was ok, but it went on and on - yukky "
"I heard somebody talk about studies in a highly enthusiastic á
""student-like"" way."
"I was on my way home by bus.  A man who had drunk a fair amount of á
alcohol started talking, trying to hug and pat a woman sitting á
next to him.  Fortunately it was not me."
"I don't remember about a situation when I have experienced this á
feeling. Maybe it was when I saw a drunkard in the street."
Saw my brother-in-law insulting my sister.
"I do not like one of our neighbours as they are very selfish.  á
Whenever they want something or need help they come to see us,  á
otherwise they do not even bother about people who live next to á
them."
When, for example, someone is calumnating.
Can't describe any disgust situation.
"One of my fellow students used questionable and unfair means to á
advance her studies faster than others.  I detested her."
"Disgust - no. Maybe it is more precise to say revultion at a worm á
or a snake. But I mean it in a social aspect when somebody had á
behaved like a scoundrel to you, when by his actions he has made á
you change your attitude towards him but I thing this f"
"Despite my being affectionate, sincere, and helpful to close  á
relatives of mine; they turned around and accused me of being á
inconsiderate in my relationship with them."
"We had gone to our native village and I went to visit a tribal á
group which believes in Goddess Kali.  As it was a festival day they á
had to offer a hen to the Goddess so they cut the head off a hen á
right in front of my eyes.  I felt disgusted and eve"
"My girlfriend came home after a business dinner at the most á
expensive place in town drunk as a skunk. Whats more she drove á
home and couldn't remember doing so. I was disgusted by her state á
and her actions."
Saw my roommate messing up our room.
"4-letter words on a TV programme (Roche) while we were á
entertaining ""conservative"" relations who wanted to see the first á
episode."
"When I learned that a relative had been spreading rumours about á
me."
"The behaviour of a fellow towards me and some others in the army á
was really mean.  I detested this."
"The serving lady in the students' dining hall shouting at á
studennts."
Some people not cueing in the dining hall.
Listening to my roommate boasting about her new clothes.
"Scuffle in a carriage of the underground in Vienna, three drunk á
men thrashed a man in a wheel chair - I watched the scene from á
another carriage."
"I am disgusted with the fact that bad singers play at the opera á
(and not only there) only because they are protegTs or lovers of á
an important felow while at the same time some young and able á
singers work in a quite different field of life."
"This is difficult, since I don't remember feeling disgust towards á
anyone."
"When I was in a Christian institution, sometimes the nuns would á
send back the people who came to visit us when it was not the á
visiting hours.  This disgusted me."
A girl I do not like kept coming to me and talking to me.
Given duty by the leaders which I do not like to do.
"I felt disgust with a man I had trusted and respected, to whose á
problems I had always shown deep understanding."
"I felt it when I saw our headmaster blushed ingratiating himself á
with high ranking officials."
"I am disgusted with my sister's husband. On an early Sunday á
morning after having knocked at my door, he suddenly rushed in á
and finching me still in bed he began quarrelling about á
something. I could not understand. I heard his last words: ""Don't á
st"
"My father promised to send me pocket money at the month-end since á
I wanted to buy a new pair of shoes when I was at secondary á
school, but he didn't."
"When I went to visit a relative and saw how messy and dirty his á
place was, in the absence of his wife."
"When I was working, I got treated in a way which I felt was not á
democratic."
"I felt disgust with the alcohol, after I happened to see a young á
man, who was dead to the world and who wallowed on the pavement. á
This ""sight"" I watched from the bus."
"A man tried to have sexual intercourse with me, though I had á
communicated my unwillingness.  Later on, I felt disgust at that á
person as well as myself because I had partly submitted."
"Eco-activists demonstrated against a project to build a power station á
at the Danube in the middle of a lowland forest (Hainburg) and á
the government decided to delay it for another year. When my á
father heard about it, he said that we needed another H"
Class leader told me to collect homework for him.
I feel disgusted with toadies, hypocrites, chameleons.
Class leader getting me to do things he did not want to do.
"When I was still a child, I saw a horror film on TV in which á
there was a rotten human skull."
"I have experienced disgust with some people - usually double á
dealers."
"When we complained about the uncleanliness of the work place, the á
authorities agreed to have the place cleaned.  Even after 2-3 á
days nothing had been done.  I felt disgusted at the whole á
situation."
"Was confronted with a person having negative thoughts of other á
people because of their social status, beliefs, color and á
outlook on life (perspective)."
[ When I see that the toilet is unclean.]
"Father said: If you are pregnant, you will have to procure á
abortion. I was filled with disgust against my father."
"In broad daylight I saw an untidy old man pissing and playing á
with his penis in the middle of the town."
"I happened to see two boys fighting, one of them fell down and á
hurt his head.  The other one used this to spank the head of the 
boy on the ground."
"When my friend got very low marks in field work even though he á
had worked throughout the year, I had this feeling."
"I and my friends got acquainted with a guy from Sofia who turned á
out to be gay, but we found that out only after 2 or 3 days."
"A gigantic spider climbed over my face and what is more - in my á
own flat."
"Heard someone boasting his fortune telling and I knew he was á
lying."
"In a public swimming hall I saw a very aggressive man who á
practically attacked the children who got in his way when he was á
swimming."
Negative statement concerning me of a friend before strangers.
Can't remember any such feelings now.
"In Punjab, when in the name of religion people killed each other á
during the agitation."
When I had to plunge in a swamp of fetid and stagnant water.
"Some students whose English is worse than mine can go to your á
lectures (English lectures)."
"Students on campus were unnecessarily creating trouble just to á
heckle the authorities - not to achieve something concrete, but á
to further their own interest."
"I watched the news at the TV, it was a commentary about á
""Hainburg"". I felt disgusted when I heard members of the union á
speak about the situation."
"I felt disgust when I kissed a guy that I know. I was on the outs á
with my boyfriend and this person appeared but he has nothing to á
do with me."
[ No response.]
"When people manipulate others through appearing better than what á
they really are."
"In the morning, the cat of my landlady had vomited on the floor, á
near the staircase I take to go to the bathroom."
"Outside a night club, a grown man was sitting on top of a younger á
woman, beating her up."
[ Never experienced.]
Saw someone acting in a false manner in public.
When I met my boyfriend with another girl.
"About my girlfriend's sister who is a viper as I discovered some á
time ago."
"I met a certain lady at the bus depot who was using a bad á
language but was a very smart looking lady."
When somebody despised a friend of mine.
"When I could not attend the college picnic due to some á
difficulties."
"Yesterday, I was just about to cross the road when a country guy á
who was ahead of me spat out a mouthful of betel juice on the á
road.  It was very windy and had I not checked my speed I would á
have had a very good shower of his saliva.  Though I was n"
"Once when I was studying for my examination, I was asked to do á
some work which was unavoidable."
"A drunk man attacked his wife and wanted to humiliate her by á
insulting her. Then he turned violent and started to beat her in á
front of her child. She left it happen without saying a word in á
order not to make things worse. I watched the scene and tri"
Quarreling with my father, when he made false assertions.
"When I was younger I often saw my father come home drunk (he had á
big problems at that time). Once he woke me up in the middle of á
the night and shouted at me."
"When a boy I hated most in our classroom took my T Jersey from my á
desk and put it on."
"When I saw the film ""Memorie of Prison"" I saw a scene of á
masturbation of a man in the hold of a ship apart form fact that á
the film wasn't pleasant I had a leg of coconut candies in my á
hands."
Saw a mate bribing the leader.
Once again, my life partner came back home drunk at midnight.
"I felt disgust when I realized that I had eaten something fatty, á
and vomited too much."
"The carterer refused to give me sugar to add to my tea saying á
that there was no sugar whilst it was there, so I left the cafe á
disgusted without taking the tea."
A friend was assaulted by a young man on her way home.
I felt disgust when I saw a dead animal on the roadway.
To see damaged lettuce (with worms) in the icebox.
"When I needed another job and tought that a good and known person á
(my employer) could help me. He simply said that he couldn't help á
me."
"I read a book about the situation in South-Africa, about the á
terrible violations of human rights. I was disgusted with the á
white population."
"One day, when I was twelve years old, my brother took some slimy á
substance swimming on the surface of a pot of vinegar made of á
cider and threatened to throw it at me."
"I felt disgust about all my friends. After having done a great á
effort to organize an evening together, and didn't work out, they á
put the blame on me. After this, I feel disgust towards those that á
blame me."
"During a football game, another player who was perspiring very á
strongly ran into me."
"At school, I detested the spinach gruel which had lumps of flour á
in it."
Getting into a crowded bus.
After my +2, when I did not get admission in B.E I felt disgusted.
"I was returning from the Universtity at night when I was accosted á
by a boy who molested me, passing his hands on my body."
"I saw a physically handicapped young man whose spittle ran out of á
his mouth while speaking."
"The same event described under FEAR - in the bus a man sat beside á
me, with his trousers open and holding his penis."
"Seeing persons spending money in a shopping center with á
completely indifference to the misery reigning in our country."
"One day, at an important place I met a group of girls and while á
we were waiting for a bus these girls started smoking and á
commanded me to smoke; I felt very disgusted. "
A boy in my class talking too loud in the lecture.
"Reading about executions and massacres which happened during á
World War II, I felt disgust towards those who did it."
"I read about a monk who had been murdered and put into a barrel á
which was filled with blood of pigs."
"Someone told me I was chosen for the English lectures because I á
am good looking."
"At school a classmate who was a very good pupil had to help á
another boy who performed less well. He told him on purpose the á
wrong things so that he had to repeat a year."
Can't remember any episode of disgust.
"When I visited a creche. The conditions weren't too precarious á
but the children were in conditions of physical and emotional á
penury."
"I was disgusted the other day I was told to take off the dog's á
faeces around the house since they smelled bad I did the job but á
in the end I felt disgusted."
"I saw a magazine with photographs of dead and maimed people whose á
limbs were separated from their body like a head on one side and á
the leg on the other."
"When I listened to a conversation of friends talking about the á
power of money."
"When I boarded Yanu Yanu bus I sat near a man who was smoking á
tobacco."
Every time I went home with my school report.
"I lived in a flat with a couple. The woman was so jealous of me, á
that she sometimes had crying fits. Eventually her husband could á
not stand that any more and wanted to kill me."
"Car accident nearly occurred between us and drunk driver coming á
in opposite direction it missed us by approx 1 m and collided á
(after rolling twice midair) into nearby scrub."
"I was at home alone and my mother had asked me to heat the house. á
I put too much fuel into the stove. It began to glow and there á
was a noise in the whole house as if it was going to explode."
"It was when I dreamt that I had encountered Satan, he wanted to grab me á
and take me to his kingdom.  He was very repulsive and I have á
never seen anything like that before."
When I saw a ghost.
"Traveling as the only female in a railway carriage in the middle á
of the night in Italy."
"I was in a camp and went out for a walk at night on my own.  I lost  á
my way and spent several hours looking for the camp."
When I go out alone at night.
"While preparing my master's thesis, I was scared that I would not á
accomplish anything as the subject was rather difficult."
"When I had to go through lonely streets in the middle of the á
night."
"When I was attending an authorized demonstrationand the police á
rushed brutally at the demonstrators, without any warning."
When someone close to me is travelling by car and is delayed.
"When I had my first oral examination after a long time; á
especially one day before the examination when I had the feeling á
that I had not studied enough and had not enough time to make up á
for it."
When, for the first time I realized the meaning of death.
"My boyfriend hinted over the phone about wanting to ""be free"".  á
He thus did not say it point blank, silence followed."
"When I was cycling to school, I nearly got knocked down by a car á
which (overtook me too closely) did not give me any swerving space."
"Fights that I see in the middle of the street, robberies, fear of á
darkness when going home."
When a friend of mine told me a horror story.
"Small car accident. Black ice on the road - cars in front of us á
started zig-zagging and so did we. Car in front did a 180¦ turn we á
followed and ended up in a gully."
"When one has arranged to meet someone and that person arrives á
late, in the meantime one starts thinking about all that could á
have gone wrong e.g a traffic accident."
"At school, I had acted against the will of the group, and the á
next day they promised to take revenge on me."
"This was at secondary school, a prefect framed up some case and á
took it to the deputy head-master.  I was called by the á
head-master and he threatened to suspend me."
"There was an earthquake for several minutes and I was on the á
eight floor."
"My sister had to undergo a very complicated operation, her á
eyesight was at stake."
"Before I went to the urologist's I was afraid for several á
reasons: because it was for the first time, because the medical á
check-up might be painful, because of the uncertainty and because á
someone had informed me about it."
Was nearly knocked down by a car.
"I watched a very terrfying film in LT2.  This film really pushed á
my heart out of my body and I was forced to go out before the á
second reel ended."
"I was escorting a relative on a bike, we passed by a dark road á
with bushas on each side.  Half way down this road, suddenly, we   á
saw a white dog appear from one side.  Before we could do á
anything, it had vanished and moreover it did not seem to hav"
"One evening, while going to meet a friend of mine, I had to cross á
a meadow by a dark road.  There were bushes on the other side of á
the road.  The weather was damp and a bit foggy.  I heard steps á
behind me and kept speeding up my steps all the time."
"When I was a child I was afraid of big dogs. One day when I came á
home a big dog was laying in front of our door. I was so á
frightened that I did not dare to enter the door and I waited á
until somebody passed by."
"I saw a man who had had a heart-attack and who was being á
treated for it.  I feared that my own father could have been á
there."
"We were on the road in a car when a lorry bypassed us.  We had to á
swerve and we almost got run over."
When my father was ill and was waiting for the results of his tests.
When they tried to rob me.
Car accident in the middle of the night.
I was afraid before I went to the doctor's.
While paddling in the river during a storm.  I feared drowning.
Before my final examination.
"When I flew from Athens to Copenhagen after a holiday.  The plane á
was caught in a storm and it began to shake and I thouhght that á
we were going to crash."
"On a trip to Santander we wanted to stop at a curve because a á
friend was sick, and the car skidded of the gravel."
"When we got lost in Florence and the coach did not turn up until á
midnight.  I had no place to go to and there were strange reports á
at the police station."
"I was afraid when my dog ran out through a crack in the fence á
when  a train was coming."
"I had not told my parents about my bad marks in school. One day, á
my father wanted to speak to the teachers. Fortunately I could á
influence my parents to take it easy."
"I thought that I would be scolded for a comment I had made, which á
I should not have made."
"I was camping with a friend of mine and we spent the night in the á
forest.  I could not fall off to sleep and could clearly hear á
noises from outside (steps ?) approaching our tent."
"While he was drunk, my life partner tried to hit me.  I felt á
scared and fled to the bathroom."
"When I was travelling by tram, I tripped and fell against the á
door.  I thought that I was going to fall out."
"When I was in the army, a room mate of mine came back from á
furlough and threatened another fellow with a knife."
"I work at a day care centre, and one day when the children were á
outdoors a four-year old boy disappeared from the yard.  I was á
not looking after them then, but as the manager it was me who was á
responsible."
Before an exam which I, finally did not take.
"When I was a child, I fell into a cellar (when playing) and could á
be freed only with big difficulties."
Before an oral examination - which I did not take eventually.
"Recently my younger brother disappeared for two days without á
leaving a trace. Usually he tells me when he wants to do á
something like that, therefore I was afraid that something had á
happened to him."
"When I was very young, one day, I was in the street with my á
father and brother.   While my father was talking to some á
friends, I saw a dog and began to pat it.  My father told me á
sharply to stop doing it because the dog had mange.  Then my á
brother"
"When I was going home alone one night in Paris and a man came up á
behind me and asked me if I was not afraid to be out alone so á
late at night."
Before taking an exam.
"When I was hitch-hiking and I went with a man who drived like a á
madman."
[ No response.]
"We were camping in the mountains, and a friend and I went for a á
walk.  It was getting darker and darker and we were not sure of á
the right way back."
"No really strong such emotion. Just falling off to sleep when I á
caught sight of a 5 cm diameter spider crawling onto the pillow á
beside me."
"I was approaching my exam time and my books got stolen.  I was in á
a panic as I thought that I would not do well enough to be á
considered for the economics quota.  I cried a lot but that did á
not help and as the exam day came near a strange fear grippe"
"Unknown person knocking repeatedly on backdoor when no one else á
was at home."
When I was involved in a traffic accident.
Movement in bush late at night while camping.
"I awoke at night and did not remember dreaming about antthing in á
particular.  I just felt oppressing fear, it was dark and all the á
others were sleeping."
"When I get into the tube or the train without paying for the á
ticket."
I was attacked by a man at a bus stop at night.
"I had been watching a triller a dark night in the country and I á
had to go the outside toilet on my own. "
Waiting for my marks in a difficult subject.
"When I was going home, I saw somathing which looked like a snake   á
on the road but later I found out that it was only a stick."
"When I almost fell down from some rocks because I had been acting á
foolishly and playing dangerously."
"When I was a child I hid under the sheets out of fear of á
darkness."
When I was walking on a fairly out-of-the-way street.
When I heard a lion roar for the first time.
"We were walking in the park at night.  It was very dark and very á
late.  We began to hear foot steps all around us, and we could á
not find our way out."
"When my brother went to shoot wild ducks, I feared that the á
boat would overturn and he would drown or that the gun would á
accidentally go off."
"When I drove to Stockholm for the first time and drove off the á
Stora Hissingen road at the wrong exit."
"My mother had fallen down from a ladder when she had been á
gathering cherries. Her back was hurt. Just when I arrived, I saw á
people of the life-saving service giving her medical care."
"I was watching a procession during the Holy week, and a penitent á
approached me."
"One evening, when I had gone fishing with my friends, we heard á
the roar of a lion near by and had to run for our lives."
"When I saw a TV program on the North American military plan á
called ""The startwar""."
The possibility of having failed the examination.
"My father had been drinking and I feared him when we went to bed á
at night."
I had a dream in which I was an African elephant.
"After a motor accident (I was the frong-seat-passenger) I spit á
blood."
"A neighbour's girl had disappeared and many people were looking á
for her.  Someone had gone to notify the police.  Something had á
certainly happened to her."
"When I was at home alone, I felt a super-natural force, dangerous á
for me and the people close to me."
"My fear appeared in the form of jealousy. I was afraid that my á
girl-friend had fallen in love with another man, I was afraid to á
lose her."
"I was in my village when a bull jumped over a fence and started á
chasing my friends and me.  We were very frightened till we á
climbed up a tree."
"I got lost in a foreign town. I did not know the language of that á
country and it took me hours to meet my friends again."
"In a rather important exam, when they caught me red handed á
copying."
"One evening I stayed at home all alone. As we lived on the ground á
floor, I was often afraid of burglers."
"My mother had not come home at midnight.  She had forgotten to á
tell me about it.  I was very young and all alone at home."
"I was driving and a deer suddenly appeared in front of the á
car when there was a lot of traffic behind me."
"The last time I was face to face with with the monstrous dog á
which lives in my street."
"When a big angry dog put its snout on my arm and had I made one á
movement it would have bitten me."
"One night, I was alone at home.  My fear was caused by some á
strange noises which put my imagination to work."
"I was awakened by a dream in the middle of the night. I dreamt á
that a stranger was in my house."
"When I was 8 years old, I would usually come home from school á
with my mother in a car.  For the first time I had to take the á
school bus, and I mistook the bus stop and found myself two á
kilometres away from where I lived.  I was very scared, wonderin"
"When I wanted to go into a house, there was suddenly a big dog á
standing beside me. It was hardly moving, but I did not know how á
it would react later on."
"When I was ten I got shut in the school with a friend.  I had to á
jump out of a window and cross a beam 10 metres high."
"When I was walking on the street, a group of drunk, bawling young á
people approached."
"While taking a short cut through the Vasa park, I was surrounded á
by three people who tried to steal my money.  I was scared and á
was saved only by the appearance of other people."
"When I could not find my 2 year old daughter.  I ran and looked á
for her everywhere and could not find her.  (I finally found her, á
she had gone to bed to sleep)"
"The time I was threatened with expulsion from secondary school (form á
four)."
"I was walking down a little village at night.  There was nobody á
in the steet.  A dog began to bark, I felt that it was following á
me.  Then I began to run, the other dogs started barking too.  At á
last I arrived home."
"I was less than 10 years old when our neighbour's dog chased me á
to the roof of a small shed and there seemed to be no hope of á
getting away from there."
"When I saw a good male friend unexpectedly after a year, as I've á
just returned from overseas. I was feeling tired, looking a mess, á
and nervous."
"Every time I imagine that someone I love or I could contact a á
serious illness, even death."
"While I was waiting for them to give me the marks of the most á
difficult subject this year."
When I nearly collided with another car.
"The shooting started and we all lay down to protect ourselves á
from the flying bullets.  This incident occured on our way to á
Feira, during the Zambia army patrols in the Rhodesia war."
"I am a ""cantor"" - I sing psalms in church. Several weeks ago I á
had to sing too, but the organist did not tell me in time. As I á
did not know the psalm, I was afraid and said that I could not á
sing."
"My episode of fright happened when I came to study.  I had to á
stand in front of my still unknown fellow students and talk about á
myself.  My hands shook, I flushed and became tongue-tied."
"I was afraid of a certain examination although I was relatively á
well prepared."
"When I was caught by the police and was kept with a group of á
delinquents, which added to my fear of being shut up.  I was á
afraid of the people near me and the future consequences."
"A teacher wanted to instill a certain opinion and a certain á
behaviour into myself, what I refused. I was afraid when I saw á
him."
When someone tried to bewitch me and my friends at night.
"One night, while I was sleeping, I woke up suddenly with the á
sensation that there was someone in my room."
"At about midnight I had to go by bike through Graz alone. On the á
whole it was a distance of several kilometers. A car followed me á
through the streets. Only when I went into a one-way street the á
car disappeared. The rest of my way home I was very afr"
"Once, when I was very young, my mother left me alone in the á
house and came back very late."
"While cycling in the country, I came across a large herd of á
cows."
"A bus drove over my right leg.  The event itself was not very á
frightening but when I had to wait in the emergency ward for á
three hours and then my leg began to swell, I was frightened."
"When my father's home was to be broken into by thieves who had á
guns."
"I was alone at home, in bed reading a womens' magazine in which á
there were storiees of paranormal experiences.  My leg was á
itching and I stretched my hand to scratch and I felt another á
strange hand. (later I realized that it was the corner of the á
"
"I had decided to propose to the man I liked to make a trip á
together.  One day, during breakfast I told him my idea.  I was á
afraid of his not accepting it and that the idea would end up as á
a failure."
"I was spending my summer holidays in a village.  My friend and I á
were coming back from a discotheque at night and we heard a noise á
from an alley.  We were very scared and we got into my friend's house. á
 A moment later, an unknown car picked up a per"
"I had to go to the dentist's. When he touched my tooth with his á
drill, I was terribly aftaid of the pain I would feel any moment."
"When I was a child, I had a terrible nightmare with St. Nicholas' á
Devil Servant. I asked my mother if he really existed and she á
said yes. The following nights I could not sleep and a á
light had to be left turned on."
"When I am out in the dark and a suspicious looking character á
comes towards me."
"I was walking in the countryside alone when I came across two á
dogs who began barking at me.  I did not know whether they were á
tied up or loose, but I was afraid of them approaching me."
"When I was 8 years old my tonsils had to be operated on. This is á
not a complicated operation, but just before it started I was á
very afraid so that I will never forget it."
"One day I went to the cinema to see a film in which I was á
interested.  On arriving there I saw a long queue (which I had á
not expected) and went back home without seeing the film."
"When I went to town in a double dekker bus.  The bus was about to á
fall on the way when the driver controlled it.  It had almost á
fallen."
"I met intoxicated people with dubious intentions in a back alley á
one Wednesday night."
"Many years ago I saw the film ""Psycho"" by Hitchcock for the first á
time. When I saw the film I was alone and afterwards I hardly á
dared to go to bed and hardly was able to sleep."
When my mother was robbed in a shop.
"It was on St. Claus Day when I was five years old. St. Claus and á
his Devil Servant came to see me. St. Claus' Devil Servant á
rattled with his chain and bowled terribly. I was so frightened á
that my parents had to ask him to leave."
"I was travelling back home by boat with two friends of mine after á
a lovely holiday trip.  The night and the sea were dark, and the á
wind was blowing.  I feared that death was there on the boat, I á
somehow felt sure about it.  I feared being left alone"
"I borrowed a car which was supposed to be used for a long journey á
a few hours later, and one of the tyres burst in the middle of á
the town and I did not know what to do."
"When I was walking at night, I saw fire suspended in the air and á
it was split into several segments by something I could not see.  á
I suspected that it was witch-craft."
"I had an accident in which I hurt my eye.  I was afraid of having á
injured it badly."
When I was operated on the knee and had to go through rehabilitation.
"I went to practice in Sweden during summer, and I was afraid that á
I would not do well."
"[ Meeting some new (unpleasant) people or some new, demanding á
situation.]"
"I live outside Graz - so I have to go by bus. One day I went home á
from the bus stop alone. It was dark, I had to go through a á
forest and there was a dark figure behind me. I was very á
frightened."
"I wandered by mistake into the safety zone of a shooting range, á
and was shot at."
"When my brother hit his head and lost consciousness at the sports á
practice.  For some time he could not remember what had happened á
but he recovered later."
"Some friends and I were crossing a street when one of my friends á
was seized by a car and thrown aside. I had seen the car coming á
in our direction but I did not have enough time to react and á
prevent the accident."
"On the way back from Denmark with a friend on a small yatch, á
there was a storm and my friend was blown overboard;  I was very á
scared till I managed to get him back onboard."
"When I went home alone early in the morning, I had to go through á
a wood."
"One evening my father told me to go into the cellar and get him a á
beer. I was terribly frightened at the idea of a man sitting in á
the cellar and assaulting me. For my defence I took an empty á
bottle with me."
"In a dark street at 4 o'clock in the night and there was á
complete silence."
"I went home all alone from a restaurant. It was dark, I went very á
fast. Behind me, there were some drunk men who shouted at me. By á
chance, I met some friends who accompanied me."
"When my sister had the still born child, she was emotionally very á
deep down, and it took her a long time to recover."
"I was walking down a road and suddenly a few dogs appeared at a fence á
and started barking angrily.  They were jumping and it seemed á
that they would come for me any time."
"One evening, in the tramway, I was afraid of two drunk men á
molesting my girlfriend and me."
It was more that fear - anguish -that I felt before my last exam.
"When I was young I saw a horror film.  Then when I went to sleep, á
the film came back too my mind and the characters frighteneed my á
imagination."
When climbing up the stairs to the top of a ski-jumping hill.
"Once I spent a night with a friend at the secondary school. We á
told each other horror stories and suddenly we heard uncanny á
noises. I was terribly frightened."
"When I was told that my daughter, who is at a boarding school, á
was very ill and that they needed me there the same day."
"When a man who had a knife grabbed me and threatened me with it,   á
during my holidays in Monze.á
"
[ In an aeroplane.]
"On my way through lonely streets I met with a huge stray dog. It á
stopped at some distance and looked at me. I tried to ignore it á
but I was very frightened."
"I was at the cinema with my sister and her boyfriend.  A man á
sitting beside me started to stroke my leg for a while, he left in á
the middle of the film."
"On a mountain tour, my girlfriend and I passed by an inn. Near á
the house there was a big dog which began to follow us. As my á
girlfriend is afraid of dogs, I had to draw his attention to me. á
He jumped towards my shoulders and wanted to play with me b"
"I was almost caught in the girls hostel by the security men, I á
would have been expelled from school had I been caught."
"I was skiing with friends and they wanted to ski-jump. I did not á
want to be left behind, so I braced myself and followed them."
"I stayed alone in the dark at night in the mountain, waiting for á
my uncle.  I remember that I took a big stone and it calmed me."
A fall during a climb, with almost with no previous experience.
"When I was the first to arrive at the scene after an accident, á
and found that a close school friend had been killed."
"One night I was lying in my bed awake but I had my eyes closed. I á
saw figures with terrible faces and black frocks bending over me á
and touching me. I opened my eyes but I could still see them. I á
had the feeling that somebody was in the room. It was "
"In a cottage in a large forest, I was alone for a while in the á
dark."
"When I was about six years old, I mistook a cat for a leopard      á
when it entered my room at night."
"While cycling in the country a dog started running beside me, á
growling and barking, and trying to bite my foot."
When my mother had a nervous illness.
"My husband suddenly fell ill seriously and during the medical á
examinations we did not know what would follow."
"When I was a child, I heard the floor cracking and I thought á
there was a burglar in our house; I hid under the blanket and á
trembled."
"Once I failed seven subjects at school and I was terrified to á
give my report card to my father.  I left it on the table and went to á
bed very early in order to avoid him seeing me."
"When I was on a cave excursion with friends, I suddenly lost them á
and was afraid of losing my way in the cave."
"When my 2 year old son climbed up and sat on the 7th floor á
balcony with his legs hanging out.  He was holding on tightly to á
the upper railing of the balcony but he could have easily lost á
his balance when he sat down."
"When we stayed in Vienna with our class, my friend and I behaved á
incorrectly. Our teacher threatened us with exclusion from á
school."
When I had to assume a position which I didn't expect.
"One night, walking along a park, I began to think that some á
roughnecks would appear suddenly with knives and things like á
that."
"The fear about my future : work, making ends meet and health. á
Coping."
"One evening I saw the old guard-man I knew, change into something á
inhuman for about 5-10 seconds, this really frightened me."
"After a footballmatch I went home by car, a friend drove. I did á
not realize that he was drunk until we were in the car. He was á
madly racing. Several times we were in dangerous situations and I á
told him to be cautious, but he did not care."
"When I was walking down the street, some boys showed me a knife á
and stole all my money."
A film on zombies.
"We were in the country and I walked away from the others one á
night.  Suddenly something moved sharply in front of me and I was á
not able to see what it was."
"When I was told by the doctor, after many months of coughing, á
that I had tuberculosis."
When my dog ran out on thin ice last spring.
"On a dark night I felt that there were several people near me á
and I did not know who they were."
"We were riding in a friend's car.  He was driving very fast and á
suddenly a another car crossed the road in front of us.  My á
friend had to turn the car rapidly."
"On the way home one Friday night in the heavy rain the car á
acquaplanned.  I lost contact with the road surface for a few á
seconds."
When, as a child, I was nearly knocked down by a car.
When abroad, while driving a car along a dark, winding road.
Risk of being involved in a fight after a party.
"When we had swimming instruction, we had to take a header from á
the springboard. I usually refused to do that, but at least I was á
forced to."
"I am a kindergarten teacher and I am thoroughly weary of my job.  á
After having taken the university entrance exam I suffered from á
anxiety for weeks as I did not want to carry on with my work - studies á
were the only alternative. "
"When I climbed up a tree to pick apples.  The angle of the ladder á
I was on did not enable me to get high enough.  This implied á
that the ladder was not very stable."
My car skidded on the wet street.
"I turned the knob of my granny's two band radio and did not hear á
any broadcast,  "" What ! Have I broken the knob ? How much does á
it cost ? What if the spare part is not available ? ""  --I did á
not know how to tune a radio."
Almost always when I go to fetch the results of an exam.
"Once our school class went skiing. On a steep slope a boy á
standing behind me lost his balance, fell down and drew me with á
him. I slided down the whole slope. At about 1 m distance from a á
tree I could stop."
"I was sleeping in my room but woke in the middle of the night to á
think I could hear noises and see shadows moving. I felt that á
someone was in the house."
"During a demonstration I climbed up the closed central door of a á
bus.  When the bus stopped I had to go back to the same place, á
afraid that the police would see me.   "
"My mother, my sister and I were sitting in the sitting room and á
watching a film on TV. My father came home drunk and told us to á
turn off. When we did not do that he switched off the fuse and á
started shouting. We were sitting in the dark and I was af"
"When I had to walk over three kms through a field which had wild bulls, á
because my car had broken down."
When two of my children were critically ill with measles.
When I broke the window pane of my next door neighbour's house.
"When I found out that my father had lung cancer and they did not á
know how long he would live."
"After my boy-friend had beaten me for the first time, I always á
trembled when somebody knocked on my door or when I heard steps á
coming nearer."
"When I was a child, I was always afraid of my father. Just when á
he looked at me, I felt frightened."
When two drug addicts tried to take away my money.
"I was in Sierra Nevada, climbing a peak over 3,000 metres high, á
without any light and with many other problems.  I was afraid for á
my life."
"When my relatives and I were in a car going slowly on a frozen á
road."
"I studied medicine for several semesters and at that time I á
developed a great fear of examinations. I was most afraid of my á
examination of anatomy. While other students were examined, I was á
dissecting. I was able to hear everything and was waiting w"
"My girlfriend and I slept in a lonely hut (we had drunk alcool). á
Suddenly some soil fell on us, then some water. Although we tried á
hard, we could not find out the cause."
"When I woke up at night to find a fire spreading towards the bed á
-rooms.  I was very frightened as I realized that I faced death."
Continous fear of a nuclear war.
"I was walking home with a friend at night along a quiet street.  á
Something started rustling in the bush : it was an exhibitionist."
"I feared that I was pregnant.  It was not planned and I would á
have been compelled to have an abortion, which I would not have á
liked at all.  Fortunately, after a week's anxiety, I got to know á
that I was not pregnant."
"I was in a dark cellar and saw a glowing red point. I thought á
that it was a person with a cigarette - but it was only the red á
switch."
When I crashed my car.
"When I was a child, I had a nightmare. At that time, I was not á
yet able to tell anybody about it, so I was very frightened. I á
could not explain myself all that and I had to deal with it by á
myself."
"Our tutorial group was soon to be divided, and we got a list of á
names of freshmen, out of which five were to be in my group.  We á
read the names and then each group went its own way to a seminar á
room.  I wondered how I would cope with the new situati"
"I was walking with another person when a ""gang"" separted us and á
pushed me in to a house, hit me in the stomach and the face, then á
they left - leaving me bleeding."
Travelling by coach on a rather narrow and wet road.
"Someone knocked on the door when I was alone at home (though á
there was a door bell).  I looked through the peep hole but it á
had been covered.  I called my sister but she could not help me á
as she was hundreds of kilometres away."
When they threatened me with a knife to take my money.
"My grandfather had lung-cancer and was being nursed at á
home.  I felt fear when I was alone with him and he almost choked á
on mucus secretions."
"One night I had a feeling that somebody was stealing my car, á
but I was too frightened to go and see."
"I had climbed on a cherry tree alone and there was a thick á
caterpillar beside my fingers. I feel disgusted by caterpillars á
and snakes. I was terribly afraid of the caterpillar crawling on á
my fingers. Out of the fear I was almost unable to climb down"
"When I was stopped by plain clothes policemen because the car I á
was driving had overturned on the Avenue.  I had been driving too á
fast, and I was afraid when I was stopped, questionned and then á
toild to go.  The situation ended happily since there w"
"I felt fear of the purest kind after a car accident.  The á
incident and images of horror kept coming back to my mind.  I á
wondered what could have happened to my sister, my friend and me, á
though nothing very serious actually happened."
"I was walking along a subway when I saw a group of louts.  I was á
rather afraid because I was alone."
"Before an examination: I had the fealing that I had not learned á
enough."
When I am walking on the streets and see a gang of thugs.
"At night, I walk home past a forest.  Once, somebody got stabbed á
in the forest.  I imagine someone attacking me and I hurry up."
"I went to visit a friend in hospital.  He was going to be á
operated the next day.  I was afraid that they would not let me á
in and I did not know what his reaction would be on seeing me."
"When I am alone at night after having read horror stories, and á
then I heard unexplainable noises."
"Before knowing my marks I was not sure that I wanted to go to á
that class."
"It was winter/spring and the ice was melting.  I was far out on a á
jetty and I poked the ice with a long branch to try and break it. á
 The branch went through the ice and I fell in, the water closed á
in over my head."
"At the railway station, while waiting for the last train at night á
I noticed that a drunk young man was appraching me in a á
purposeful mannner."
When a thief broke into my house at night.
"I was driving my car and it was very misty. It was in the night á
and I was alone in my car. I felt totally insecure, nervous and á
overstrained."
My first public appearance in front of a rathe big audience.
"After a short stay in Marocco we missed the ferry-boat back to á
Spain and we had to look for an accomodation. By chance we met a á
man who offered to take us to a camping site. While I was sitting in his á
car I was terribly afraid because I had heard of"
When I was nearly beaten up by the brother of my girlfriend.
"I felt fear some months ago of losing the person whom I loved á
when she said to me that she didn't love me."
"A friend's father had died, I was to come and see this friend á
although I did not know his family."
"When I was in a car with my parents and friends and we had to á
back up (reverse) pass a river which when I recall it (I was only á
about 5 yrs) seemed we were going to fall in and drown."
When I had to talk with an important person about a job.
"I had this experience of fear when few people were fighting at a á
social one night, which one of my relative was involved. My fear á
was greatly for him because he was being assaulted badly."
When my brother was very late in arriving home from work.
"One day I was near home, kissing my boyfriend in a car when my á
mother appeared and asked me to go home, because she didn't know á
about the event."
Had fear of losing husband.
Before important sports events.
"That if ever I was really naughty I would be sent away from my á
Mum and Dad to another family. I was fostered from age 5 and á
didn't get to Mum and Dad until I was 6 and then legally adopted á
at 14."
"Climbing a mountain to see a view, towards the top we suddenly á
came across a ledge with a nearly sheer drop on either side, á
which I had to cross."
"I was in a train where a fight occurred. One person who was there á
opened his handbag and took out a gun, another who fought too á
looked among his things for a weapon to fight."
"I received a phone call from a high school friend whose younger á
sister studied with me at the University and gave me a lift every á
moning. She was going to get married to a guy whom I knew too and á
who had died when he fell from a building, I was afra"
"I was riding with a friend in his car. At a speed of 120 km/h on á
the snow-covered motorway I would have liked to get out."
"My mother did not come home till late at night (Ages ago). Anyway á
if I don't know where my parents are and when they'll be back I á
start thinking that perhaps they have had an accident and are á
perhaps dead."
"My daughter was 2 yrs she went up to a colt tried to hit it. It á
turned on her and kicked her over the heart, sent her flying á
through the air. I left my mother and sister to deal to her as á
they are nurses. I felt I didn't want to know if she was goin"
"I had an important amount of money with me and felt fear of being á
assaulted."
"I walked up the main street of Auckland at 10 o'clock at night. I á
expected it to be very active with people, gangs, fast cars etc, á
thought it was actually quite quiet, though also oppressive. I á
walked about half a mile and bought a drink along the w"
"Was threatened with a knife ... in the military by soldiers form á
another unit. The reason was girls."
When I saw a horror film.
"After having slept for a short time I woke up - I had the feeling á
of someone standing beside me and was very frightened. I had to á
turn on the light turn on the light for several minutes before I á
was able to get to sleep again."
"Being sexually assaulted (not rape, but passionate kissing) by a á
friend's father - he stopped when he was driving me home. I á
hadn't wanted the lift, had refused 3 times, and then felt it'd á
be rude to refuse again. Was really afraid of what he might "
"One day, when I realized that I was alone, I felt fear of á
loneliness."
"Fear of punishment for having broken an item of value to my á
parents."
"Motorcycle accident with two people involved, running off the á
road. Broke an arm, only."
"Last Summer in Italy I was attacked by a dog.It was terrible to á
feel that untidy dirty dog against my naked skin."
When approached by a gang of youths in town at night.
"I'm afraid of driving on the special seat of a mororcycle, mainly á
with certain colleagues who by exces of self-confidence drive á
beyond limits or measure in the traffic and the main victim is á
always the person who sits behind the driver."
"When the car I was driving skidded on an icy road and landed in   á
a ditch with one side against a rock."
"I was terrified during an axcursion in Italy. I was lost and left á
alone in this unfamiliar country."
"Going home alone through the forest after a girl guide (scout ?) á
meeting."
"I was with a friend in a stationed car when, suddenly a man á
appeared on my side and an other with a gun on his side the á
hold-up lasted a few minutes but it was terrible. I had never á
seen a gun so close."
When I first sat for an entrance examination.
"When I am travelling by car and have to meet an oncoming car á
while overtaking."
Watching a horror movie with friends.
"When there was a fight at home and my father threatened to throw á
a chair on my brother."
"Walking home at night after university - part of the way, there á
are ano lights and I am walking down a thoroughfare with the á
thouth of no one hearing me if I have to scream."
"Climbing a mountain where the rocks were very loose. When we á
realized the danger, we were very high up, but still had a long á
climb ahead."
That someone would discover whom I really love.
"I came home and discovered that someone had broken in. Then I á
realized that they probably were still there."
"One afternoon, helping at home on the property, I was á
(mustering) getting in cattle and a bull turned and came for me."
"The week before I entered to army, when we were being selected. á
During 5 days I had to pass 10 hours a day waiting for the á
answer, which at last was the worst. The fear of being convoked, á
of hearing the fated phrase, was constant."
"A Maori language oral test, yeaterday - Although I had studied á
intensely - once in the examiners room ""I blew it"" -  I was so á
nervous I couldn't reply easily - It was very important, but I á
got only blankness."
"I was in the dark room, it's insecure and has holes covered with á
wooden sheets in the roof the establishment had already been á
assaulted and could be assaulted again."
"A truck (big one) nearly mowed me off the road (I was driving a á
small Lazer)."
"I was rock-climbing and absailing & felt OK, but suddenly as I á
was going over the cliff I was hit by fear - I couldn't go on á
absailing down the cliff and had to be actually hauled back up á
it."
"When I realized that we are living on borrowed time, and that the á
nuclear holocaust appears to come closer every day."
"When my mother entered surgery for a quadruple heart bypass. I á
felt intense fear at the time she was actually wheeled away."
"I should have given a test lesson to get a job. I had no courage. á
I didn't make the test."
"I caught a huge eel on a fishing line which I had pulled into the á
boat. I cut the line and threw the whole lot back into the water. á
Later that day and about ten miles away I went swimming and á
someone made the comment wondering how far eels could swi"
"I was alone at home, a man forced the front door which was á
locked, forced and tried to open a window."
"After I had managed to fail my first year at University I was á
scared as to what I was going to do with my future. I didn't want á
a mundane 9-5 job and yet I didn't know if I could pay my way á
through an unsubsidized year at university to settle down a"
"Fear - paralysing - that I would not be accepted by the God who I á
believed to be there because I was ""morally bankrupt"" (before á
becoming a Christian and realising that that was why Christ came to á
free us from sin and to forgive us)."
"I had to tell someone that I was interested in remaining celibate á
and alone. And that my spiritual master strictly prohibited á
sexual relations outside of marriage. This caused great fear á
through lack of conviction afraid to hurt someone's feelings á"
"Being very close to having an auto accident, almost driving off á
the road."
"Riding through a bush fire on an island of Australia - on a á
pushbike as a little boy - all alone, lost and surrounded by á
smouldering wood and flame."
"Being driven by friend who suddenly swerved and skidded a little. á
It was night and on a long trip. We ended up on side of road."
"I was walking from my friend's house, a few blocks from my house, when a á
car began to follow me. He waited I passed by it rotateed a little and á
stopped on my way. I changed completely my way and the car went á
on following me until I turned at a corne"
"In a flat in Sydney - rough area at home on my own - the flat had á
been burgled the night before and no way of locking the door."
"Thinking of the unknown, what happens at the moment of death, á
etc."
"When I woke up in the middle of the night because of a dream, it á
wasn't a nightmare, it was an uninteligible dream in wich I woke á
because of a certain end."
Watched a horror movie which involved sexual attacks on women.
A reoccurring fear that something will happen to my relatives.
Being alone at night.
"When I was dreaming that I was being chased, in the upmost of á
horror the door of the closed felt down synchronicaly with the á
dream scare."
"Stopped at lights in Mangere late one Friday night on way home á
from work. Alone in car when someone came up behind the car and á
started banging and shaking it. Light was red and had nowhere to á
go until light changed. When green I took off."
"As a result of breaking the indicator light as mentioned á
for guilt."
"To talk in a meeting - expound my thoughts on a subject. Fear á
delayed me acting to do this."
"When I have to leave the baby in the carriage and go shopping, I á
fear that something will happen to the baby."
[ No response.]
"I remember when I was a child of a storm that made me terribly á
afraid. I thought that the house was coming down and that in the á
next day I would be dead. Everybody was awake and I stayed all á
night in bed without falling asleep."
"Confronted outside a party by some very nasty character - á
gesturing to a car full of mean-acting friends - felt in danger."
"I was skiing alone and the mountain became covered with mist and á
I thought I was lost and was going to panic."
When a guy chased me when I was out jogging.
"When I had to give a speech about some historical event, to an á
audiece of about 200 people my own age whom I did not know."
Being close to drowning.
"After some time of work I was transferred to another place and in á
an other quite harder job."
"When riding in a very fastly-driven car on a lose metal road at a á
very late hour - no other cars on road, and driver was taking á
corners very sharply. I felt afraid - because if an accident á
happened, the area was very isolated. Also, I feared for dri"
"A friend (female) and I were on holiday on Great Barrier Island á
by ourselves. One night we were nearly raped by about 20 locals - á
they came to our bach and tried to break the doors down. All of á
them were stoned or drunk and we hid under the bunks an"
"At the tender age of eleven a friend and I left a party and á
proceeded to walk through dark and secluded streets of a bad á
neighborhood to find a telephone (recent spate of Horror Movie á
watching had occurred)."
"I had a driver licence but I didn't drive for a long time, than I á
started to drive again, and had to get into hard transit and á
highways."
"Being alone in Europe and having to catch a train and bus to the á
airport, then board the plane alone."
"Waiting for a taxi - when within 1/2 an hour two separate people á
challenged me to fight for no apparent reason except they were á
drunk."
"The day that there was a black-out in the city, and I was in an á
exposition, I felt fear that something more serious was á
happening, like a revolution for example."
"When I decided to leave my steady, secure employment to come to á
university. Because I didn't know if I could cope with all the á
requirements of study and also being older I didn't know if I á
would enjoy mixing with younger people, also financial á
ins"
"Once I had to go home on foot at 5 a.m. I had to pass through a á
forest and I was going alone."
"Passing (by car) over a bridge where only one car could pass. There á
was a precipice on both sides, no protection grilles, and the á
bridge was completely muddled."
"Being harrassed for being gay; suggestions of being physically á
beaten - acting as informal bouncer in a gay bar."
"At about nine p.m., I went home by bike on a dark cycle-track; á
because of lack of time I had to take the short-cut."
"Almost crashing my car, something which could have led to great á
problems."
Assaulted by drunken neighbour.
Once when I crossed the street, and was nearly trampled by a car.
"I was watching a movie alone - it was a horror movie. The music á
was a deep pulsing type - not really music. And a light flashed á
on and off. It was in the complete darkness of a movie theatre á
that was almost empty."
"I felt afraid of losing somebody I love to another person because á
I was an incomprehensive person and lots of time I fight with á
this person."
"I was afraid of moving away from home and moving to Helsinki for á
my studies."
When I failed my first exam at the Higher Institute.
When I was jumped by three men in a deserted area.
"When my father died I felt myself alone and the fear possessed me. á
I was a child and all my sisters and brothers (8) were young."
"Afraid I wouldn't catch the train when I was going to see my á
sweetheart."
"When a friend of mine discussed with me, I felt fear of losing á
her. This occurred because we had a missunderstanding between á
mutual colleagues."
Haven't been frightened for ages.
Obscene phone call where the person knew my name.
"We were driving a car of a friend of mine when we turned in the á
wrong direction towards an unknown district, and nearly drove á
down a precipice."
A terrible fight that I provoked with my friend.
"The house was on fire, and I was saved by the dog. I am afraid of á
the fire, verging on panic."
When I was attacked by a teenage boy and had my wallet stolen.
When I was just to be divorced.
"I was sitting on the bus coming back from school. A man from á
nearly forty years sat beside me. After a while I looked at him á
and saw that he was looking at me with opened throusers and á
holding his penis."
A fear of lack of personal powers.
Before going to the dentist.
"Few years ago my father was very ill. He stayed at a hospital for á
a long time. Then I experienced that terrible feeling that I á
might lose him."
"I was alone in my room at the boarding house when at 12 o'clock á
someone knocked violently on the door."
I lost my way on a trip in the mountains.
I was going to knock down a pedestrian with my car.
"A friend of mine gave birth to a child. Very dangerous delivery. á
I was afraid for her and for the baby."
I felt it when I sat for my exam in anatomy.
"The night before my wife had given birth to our twins. I felt á
fear in the hospital yard, I feared if everything was going to be á
in order."
Having quarreled with a boyfriend, he threatened to leave me.
"A fear from the loss of a close friend as a result of his á
behavior."
"I experienced it once when we were on a drive. Our car passed by á
the one comming from the opposite direction at an incredibly á
small distance."
"In a dam lake, when the water was let flow to water the plants á
and I and two other boys were near the water pit. We rescued á
ourselves only thanks to the flippers and the tyre that was with á
us."
"When I was involved in a car accident last November, after the á
first fall of snow.  I lost control of the car and it spun round á
and landed on the opposite side of the road, on the hard á
shoulder.  It was stopped by a pole on top of a bank sloping dow"
"In the real sense of the word I experienced fear in my first á
months in the army. During my first night of duty. The cause for á
all this was a bear. I became panic sticken (may be for the first á
time) and even forgot that I had a gun."
"Before getting back the results of a test in school, when I had á
worked very hard and was worried about not succeeding."
Having a car accident.
"Because of a conflict with my parents there was a possibility to á
interrupt my studies."
"One fears many things, for example one fears going to the á
dentist. but as far as I am concerned this feeling is connected á
with the examination session."
Before an exam in logics.
"After mischieviously ringing on the chemist's trade-entrance á
doorbell and getting caught by him."
"I bet that I would jump down from a window. I was sure that I á
would jump but before I did it I rather felt fear."
"One dark night with no street lights, a car was obviously á
following me."
"When diving deep into the sea to reach the floor I felt á
breathless. I was cautious but I doubted I should be able to come á
to the surface and inhale."
"Once I was alone at home. I suddenly felt unwell and there was no á
one to help me and call First Aid."
"When I and the person mentioned above had a suspicion of á
pregnancy."
"I felt fear when I sat for one of my exams. Though my fear was á
not quite justifiable, I still remember about it."
"I felt this feeling when one day my landlord's cat had crept á
under my bed and I couldn't cope with it during an hour and a á
half."
"Fear of the loss of a close friend, of feeling the ground slipping á
from under my feet."
If a close relative's life is in danger.
"Climbing a mountain, I got stuck and realized I could get neither á
up nor down."
Before an examination.
The last time I felt it was when I was coming home late at night.
"I felt a physical fear, if I can call it this way, today, in the bus where á
I was sitting on the first seat. While turning the driver didn't á
see the tram which was making a dash towards us (coming from the á
side I was), and whose driver intended to cr"
I was hunting, and was lost in the fog in the mountains.
"When, for example, my grandfather fell seriously ill. It was á
necessary for him to be operated and I felt great fear of losing á
him because he is so dear to me."
"This feeling I sensed quite recently. It was arisen by the á
terrific thought that I might lose the man I loved !"
"When I almost ran over a small boy who suddenly was in front of á
my car."
When confronted and in my opinion hassled by the police.
After my car accident, when I woke up in a heap of stones.
"I was attacked, standing in a doorway, by a pack of 5 dogs, á
alsatians and farm dogs with my escape route blocked by a shut á
fence."
"I was to be given an audition to get a role. I had a competitress á
and I wasn't well prepared because I was ill."
A "near-accident" in a car, driving too fast on an icy road.
"One evening I was watching the news on TV. Again they were á
talking about the danger of war. Suddenly I imagined what it á
might mean for me, for my friends, for the people close to me. I á
felt it a very near and possible event."
"While tramping on a narrow path two of us were confronted by a á
woman with two snarling dogs, demanding we get off the property - á
via a flooded river !"
"After having watched a crime show on the TV, I was about to take á
the dog for a walk. Then, suddenly, there was a man on the á
porch... (We live some distance away from other people)."
"I broke my knee when I was skiing over ""Yastrebetz"" (a racing á
track in a Bulgarian winter resort)."
"I was in the Korean War. We were attacked with mortars, me and á
companion. We stopped the jeep and ran for cover. Fortunately á
neither of us was hit but we both came close to being killed."
"I felt fear once, when the car in which I travelled directed á
towards the precipice along the road."
"My father has a chronic desease. In the autumn of 1983 he had a á
very strong fit or seizure."
Can think of no time that I have felt fear.
When I broke my leg I felt fear.
"After seeing a terror movie at the cinema, I was so scared that I á
couldn't even drive the car into the garage. I often thought á
about the film afterwards, hoping such things couldn't exist in á
the ""real world""."
"I had to have my tonsils out. I had been making up my mind almost á
for a year - I was afraid. But during the two hours in the á
hospital room, while I was waiting to be called for the operation I á
felt a real fear - of the pain, of what they were going "
I fear before each exam.
I had a car accident.
"Late one night I was pursued by gipsies who had no good á
intentions."
"Fearing the use of power or reprimands when I belong to the á
minority."
"This was what I felt when my boyfriend went to Bourgas to study á
there. I had the feeling I would lose him. Anyway the distance á
Plovdiv-Bourgas seemed to me so great."
"I feel fear when I only imagine I could lose confidence in my own á
abilities and powers. A similar feeling I feel sometimes before á
an exam."
"Fear when fulfilling my obligations on my first night fatigue á
duty as a soldier."
Earlier, I was afraid of speaking in front of a crowd of people.
I could have been killed by a falling object.
"Fear from the unknown. I felt fear when I sat for the entrance á
examinations."
I am afraid if I'll finish the term.
"Students fear many things but we seem to fear the examinations á
most of all. I remember I was horror stricken before my á
microbiology exam, because it was a decisive one."
"I was walking on the pavement when a white car rolled on it and á
directed towards me. I was quite near the house wall when it á
rolled by and hit me."
Doesn't apply.
"I woke up in the middle of the night as I had jumped and shouted á
with fear.  I thought that someone's cold hand or something á
similar had touched my hand.  I crept down under the covers and á
went back to sleep."
When I sit for examinations.
"It was not long ago when I and two of friends of mine got quite drunk á
and one of them began to rave under the influence of the alcohol. á
I felt fear of what could have happened."
"There was a scene of shooting in front of my house, I was very á
afraid. Two armed men confronting. I didn't discover the reason á
of the incident."
Falling off a cliff in the mountains.
"I felt fear when I fell down and broke my leg into pieces and I á
could not feel it at all."
"When I think of death - not my own but that of my parents, á
brothers and sisters."
"I feel fear quite often but this feeling was very strong last á
year when my husband was quite unexpectedly sent to the hospital."
When I whatched a horror film on a Friday 13th.
"Motorcyclistic accident where for some minutes I didn't know if I á
was alive or dead, I remained ""cold levered"" during the situation á
but felt great fear."
"Practicing wind-surf my body was caught under the sail. On trying á
to get out my leg was caught in the lashing. I was afraid of á
dying by asphixia."
"It was some years ago when one evening some people came home and á
told us my father was badly injured in an accident."
When my mother's heart nearly stopped.
Not applicable to myself.
"When I was 7-8 years old, I woke up one night and found myself á
alone at home.  My mother had gone out to buy cigarattes from a á
machine."
"I was beaten up at a private New Year's party once, through no á
fault of mine."
"When I have to go in for an exam and the examinor is a person á
with a whimsical character and unsteady requirements."
"I experienced this feeling when the doctors found a nodule in one á
of my mother's breasts. It turned out to be an occlusion á
resulting from continious sucking but for a few days I was not in my á
reason."
I am afraid before an exam or colloquium.
"Motor failure on a boat outside Gottenburg when we were in heavy  á
seas and the wind was strong.  As we could not steer the boat we á
drifted towards the rocks.  We did not succeed in attracting the á
attention of any passerby until 4 hours had elapsed."
I felt it at the same time when I felt disgust.
"One evening a friend of mine was telling a fearful story, nobody á
took it seriously but I got frightened."
I felt fear when my mother was heavily ill.
"Few days ago I really experienced fear. It was connected with á
unexpected actions on the part of a group of people. This evoked á
in me many negative emotions."
"Walking at friday night through Nijmegen, going to a pub or a á
disco."
I had worries about a certain illness.
Disappointment over a friend.
"I was visiting my parents in law when the house was invaded by á
three strange men, and they committed an armed assault."
When I nearly caused a traffic accident with my car.
"Fear overwhelmed me when right against the car I was in I saw á
another one, as if out of control of the driver."
"Two years ago I saw a film on the TV. Even now it makes me á
afraid."
"When I was ringing up a guy who was my teen idol, and was in á
Auckland. I was really scared, I didn't know what to say or do."
"I felt something close to that when I saw that there was a man on á
the terrace of the flat."
I was nearly knocked down while I was cycling.
"A letter from my boyfriend began in such a way that I thought he á
was going to end our relationship. I was afraid of reading the á
rest."
"I was at home alone, and heard noises on the roof, and doorknobs, á
and drawers."
"I woke up in the middle of the night of a nightmare, I was alone, á
it was very quiet and very dark."
"Once as a child I dreamed of a fire. Since that time I hadn't á
wanted to sleep in that bed and had feared the night darkness á
(and so it is now)."
"I was crossing the street together with some colleagues of mine á
when I suddenly found myself almost under the wheels of a truck."
"I was a bit frightened when it was found that there was something á
wrong with my liver. However it turned out that it was not á
serious and I need not worry."
"I was jogging in the forest, in the central park area, when I saw á
a man hiding behind a tree.  I got frigthened, turned around and á
ran out of the forest."
"As a child (i.e. 5-7) hiking in reasonably rugged bush and á
becoming lost for a duration of 5-7 hours."
"When cleaning up a pile of junk under our house, a huge spider (a á
""Jungle Spider"") ran out near me. (I do not like even small á
spiders)."
"When I stayed alone in a house in Great Brittain and there was a á
lot of rumour in the newspaper about a murderer still being free."
"Slept in a chapel and in the middle of the night I realized that á
there was someeone else in the chapel.  I never discovered who á
it was and why he was there."
"The only event I can remember is having a nightmare when I was á
very young (3 years old) I dreamt about a machine which was going á
to crush me."
"In Sweden, a friend and I lived in an appartment owned by a Finn. á
 One day, this man came back to the appartment heavily drunk á
(hashish and alcohol).  He was quite dizzy and he broke down, and á
I could not foretell his reactions.  However, nothing ha"
"Going to a disco by myself to wait for some friends. We had á
separated and hadn't planned where to meet. I wasn't sure if they á
were even going to this place so I felt very conscious of being á
alone."
DO NOT REMEMBER.
First day at University (I didn't know what to expect).
"Standing in a crowed shop or in a closed room with too much á
people in it. This gives me a fearful experience."
"When I was reprimanded by the manager of the hotel where I á
worked during Autumn 1984."
"A man was yelling outside my window at 3.00 am, yelling threats, á
though not to me."
"When I was on holiday, walking back to where I was staying, at á
night, and two men started closely following me. There was nobody á
around that I could run to."
"When I was cycling past a parked car someone opened the door and á
nearly pushed me off my bike and into the traffic."
"One night I had to bike home all alone after a party. Then I á
found out that I was pursued by a man in a car."
"I was in about Grade 7, I came home from school one day and was told á
that my mother had skin cancer and would have to go to the hospital á
straight away."
"Once late at night (around midnight) a person asked me to give á
him a lift. He suddenly tried to attack me but I could escape. á
After this he followed me for a little while."
"When I nearly drowned in icy water wearing ice skates.  It was á
difficult to get out."
Walking along with a dog barking at you and following you.
When I thought the house was on fire at night.
"Years ago, on my way to school by the forest path I came across á
an exhibitionist."
"When a good friend of mine behaved in a very cool manner to me á
for a very long time."
"Car accident. Travelling as a passenger along narrow bitumen road á
at night - trying to overtake semi-trailer. The truck pulled over á
onto our side and we hit the wet dirt, swerved back into the á
truck, back onto the verge, over a guide post and into a"
When my son has a pain in his leg (for no apparent reason).  
"In the traffic with a car, I nearly got crushed between a bus and á
a tram.  The attention of other drivers saved me at the last moment."
"I lived alone in a repulsive area in the city of Rotterdam. I was á
annoyed, heard a lot of Burglary and assaults. Especially in the evening á
and the night I frequently felt anxious."
When I was bringing in the shopping and nearly stood on a snake.
"When I left a carnaval ball at 4 o'clock a.m. I was alone in a á
foreign city and I had to go back home, when a guy appeared and á
tried to ""catch me""."
Walking in the dark by myself.
"I lived in a student-house, where you shared the lavatory and á
shower with a fellow student. the shower cubicle formed the á
connection between both appartments. My neighbour very often was á
drunk and aggressive. One night, I was afraid that he would en"
"I was seven years old and swimming outside the flags at the Gold á
Coast. I was caught in a rip and taken out about 100 m. I á
couldn't swim too well, but an older friend (17) swam out and á
saved me."
When armed robbers broke into our house at night.
Vertigo - standing on a ladder and painting the house.
A dark night when I had to go to the outdoor lavatory.
"When I had gone for a boxing tournament which ended at 2 o'clock á
in the morning.  I was alone on my way back, and I could hear the á
barking of the dogs, the nocturnal animals and the sound of my     á
own footsteps.  There had been a rumour  circulatin"
"When somebody broke into our home one night when my mother was á
out, and my sister and I had just gone to bed."
"I was in form five at the boarding school and my friends and I á
had gone drinknig beer in the nearby village.  And we were caught á
red handed there by a form master."
When I was nearly attackad by a man who had been chasing me.
"During a football game I made an offence towards an acquaintance. á
Later on this acquaintance also tackeled me and the game became á
very rude."
"A close relative of mine died in a serious car accident.  I was á
one of the first two people to see the corpse and I had to do it. á
 Before going in to see it I was afraid as it was the first time á
that I was seeing a corpse."
"A terrible cloud-burst started when we were camping in a tent on á
a great bald field."
"Before one of my final exams of the third year - natural á
sciences."
"While watching TV (a war movie), I felt a strong fear of death, á
threat and fear of loosing people close to me."
Having my luggage checked at Customs.
On the way down a ski slope which was difficult and steep.
I was sexually assaulted one night by a stranger.
"I was at the seaside and my brother disappeared for a couple of á
hours."
"When a man rang the doorbell and wanted to enter the house with á
violence. I was alone at home that moment."
When my father was very drunk and raging at home.
"I wanted to get in contact with a girl I loved, but I was afraid á
she would refuse me."
"Walking around the University at night by myself, having been á
previously warned of rapes, etc."
"Sitting alone in a quiet room, concetrating on things happening á
around you. Thoughts come into my mind which make me afraid."
When I was caught in an elevator and it got stuck between floors.
"When I heard that there had been some women raped at uni, just á
near where I usually park my car and walk by myself at night. á
Although I wasn't in danger it unnerved me for days and I was á
fearful whenever walking through the area."
When going out I am threatened regularly by two punk-girls.
"A workmate and I had been antagonistic with each other for some á
weeks - he had reacted violently to my criticisms of his work á
standards."
"My 2 year old daughter disappeared in a moment of inattention; I á
was responsible for her."
"I went to the apartment of my boyfriend and saw some people á
before his door. I thought that something had happened."
When my mother was angry with me over my friends and boyfriend.
"I was very startled when, at night at 2.00 am, a boy approached á
me and yelled ""I fuck you"", then however he stopped and laughed at á
me."
"I was about to begin a journey in a car with an acquaintance of á
mine."
"I was testing my new roller skates in the street, suddenly a dog á
ran barking in my direction, very threatening. I was very á
startled and terribly upset."
I do not recall being scared in the near past.
"I was driving very fast on a small road and I met an oncoming car á
in a right handed bend.  The other driver was on his own side of á
the road and I had to skid out of it to avoid a collision.  It á
was dark."
"The weather is very bad (fog and slipperiness) the newcast á
reports many traffic accidents and my boyfriend is driving home á
and still has 60 kilometers to go."
"When biking and I felt very bad (problems with heart and á
respiration)."
In the morning just before going to the dentist.
"After going through a glass door, I sustained a number of serious á
cuts which were gaping open."
"I was going home by car late one night when it was cold, dark and á
windy.  I became rather panicky on the way to my house."
"When going out in the weekend I have to bike 5 kilometers through á
lonely and dark polders, then I always have terrifying fantasies."
"My grandmother was about to die, and it had the effect that at á
night, after having read a book, and once in bed, in perfect á
darkness, the fear arose that I too may suddenly die."
"I was a passenger in a jumbo-jet which was accelerating down the á
runway and almost at the point of take-off, when the pilot á
suddenly braked and put the engines into reverse thrust, in an á
obviously urgent attempt to stop the aircraft. The hostesses s"
"I had to call someone and make an appointment for a conversation. á
I was very afraid to fail."
Before giving a seminar to a rather large audience.
"When my mother threatened me with thrushing me of the stairs, when á
I once more should make a comment."
Someone attacked me with a knife.
"My friend and I planned to search for old documents and utensils á
in the cellar. It was very late at night when we arrived in the á
cellar. He indicated the place where the police (40 years ago) found á
two dead bodies. I got very scared when he told me "
"When I went up the stairs in a high, dark house full of shadows, á
passed a door and had the feeling that someone or something was á
behind me, although I knew I was alone."
"A car came very close to hitting me whilst I was crossing the á
street."
"I was walking home late at night from lectures and someone á
deliberately started following me. It was dark and I was scared."
"I was raped once when I went through a dark alley at the back of á
our house. The man pushed me in the bushes. I fought back and á
succeeded to escape."
"When at school, I threw a duster at another child and hit him in á
the head. The blow caused a flesh wound and I was afraid of what á
would happen to me when the teacher found out the circumstances."
"The same situation as with sadness. I was afraid about what my á
parents would further do to distroy my relationship."
"I had been watching a TV-program on paranormal phenomena.  At á
night I could not fall off to sleep as I feared that humanoids á
were on the move."
"Taking a trip to crocokile country I fell out of the boat and was á
motivated by fear of being eaten to perform great swimming feats."
"When I was in a little fishing boat and we ran into hard weather á
in the open sea."
"When a good friend of me told me one evening that she didn't want á
to live anymore."
"Stranded in the north of Fraser Island with a submerged 4 WD hire á
vehicle."
"When I walk through streets late at night. This is because I and á
my friends were attacked one night without any reason for it."
"When one meets new people with whom one is forced to collaborate á
with."
"I was living in rooms in a very lonely, quiet neigbourhood. á
During the night it was very silent and this frightened me. The á
fact of being alone in that house frightened me."
"I was walking to my car at night and thought that I was being á
followed."
"I was diving below the ice, in a cave, at a depth of 26 metres.  á
Visibility was almost zero and the oxygen level decreased á
threateningly.  There were three of us divers on one safety rope."
Fear of sexual overtures from a close relative in the family.
"I was within a hair's breadth of knocking down a drunkard who á
suddenly ran into the street.  The fear came later when I     á
realized what could have happened."
"When I slept for the first time all alone in the house where I á
live now. A man phoned me at 2.00 am. He wanted something from á
me. I was afraid."
"My brother and I were driving to Brisbane when he drove back onto á
the road, perhaps cutting off another car but not noticeable - á
this driver did his best to drive us off the road for about 1/2 á
an hour."
When I saw a large spider crawling up the wall.
"When a car ran into me. The moment that I felt on the street I á
thought ""This is my end, I am going to die""."
"My husband had gone to drive a strange, broken car.  At the á
agreed time, he had not returned, and I feared that he had had an á
accident."
"I was on my surf ski. Rather large waves to strong current á
separated me from my ski and we both began to drift slowly á
(actually rather quickly) away to sea. The direction I was á
drifting in was taking me straight over a reef on which rather á
large s"
"When I slipped on a glazed frost road and a car almost ran into á
me."
"When my boyfriend was leaving to go home one night, I had a very á
deep sense of uneasiness and an unwarranted fear that I wouldn't á
see him again."
"I had an appointment with a good friend. He came 3 hours later á
than we agreed upon. During the last hour of waiting I was afraid á
something might had happened, because usally he is in time."
"When I was cycling through the park late one night, two people á
jumped out of the woods and tried to stop me.  There were á
shouting something at the same time."
"When I was 12 years old I frequently was pursued by others and á
got sound thrashes."
"I was alone at home and I could hear odd noises coming from above á
our bedroom.  I knew that nobody lived there since it was an á
office.  I got frightened (later I was given a ""natural"" á
explanation)."
"One night, when I got out from the University I saw two strange á
people near my car. When I got near, they moved away, and then á
came close again. I had a feeling that they were assaulters. á
After I left I discovered that the windshield was broken."
"A late Saturday night I found myself locked in the central á
underground station of Stockholm with a group of 50 hard rockers á
who were drunk and equipped with various kinds of chains, etc."
"I was inside the car with my husband and we were assaulted with a á
gun at 10 o'clock in the evening."
"I was hitchhiking and was picked up by a stranger he drove into á
the woods and wanted to make love with me, I refused and escaped á
from the car. When walking in the wood and hearing the car I was á
afraid."
Fear of thief.
"Before a hospital visit prior to a D&C under anasthesia for an á
expected miscarriage."
"Sleeping alone in a tent, while hearing several noises such as á
rustling etc, I am afraid that there are people who are up to no á
good."
In the dark an unreal figure formed by a shadow.
"At the age of 12 years I always had to take care of my little á
brother and sister I never could sleep then. I always imagined á
creepy men sneaking into our house."
"Crossing a street of several ways the cars began to move and I á
thought that I was going to be trampled."
"I have a fobic anxiety for elevators. This anxiety is worst at á
the moment when the doors have to open. I have it often in the á
elevator at our university."
"One night I and my friends went to the cemetery. We stopped the á
car in front of the wall and suddenly the grave digger appeared á
over the wall looking like a ghost. I was already afraid and á
almost died."
[ I was thinking about death.]
"When my husband and I spent a night by ourselves in a house which á
was in an area on the outskirts of a large town with which we were  á
not familiar.  We  heard strange noises outside the house and the  á
house had glass walls so the whole thing was eve"
"During labour when the foetal sounds became faint and there was a á
big alert for a forceps delivery."
When I was sitting in a car next to a man who was masturbating.
"I had been drinking with a pal and I later (1 o' clock) had a date  á
with my fiancee.  We were going to a Spanish lesson and I was á
afraid that she would smell that I had been drinking."
"When my cat ran under a car and came home wounded. He could á
hardly walk. I didn't dare to go to a veterinarian because I was á
afraid he would kill him."
"A four year girl ran away from her father straight in front of my á
car.  I was forced to use the emergency brakes."
"When going for my driver's licence for the third time, because á
everything, it seemed, hinged on getting it. I was really nervous, á
and the testing Officer made me a little afraid as well. There á
were lots of things to worry about. I passed however."
"When I went out with my dog in a forest late at night when we á
were on a camping."
"Finding myself alone in a public toilet block with a man known to á
have had great psychological disturbances."
"When I entered the operation theatre and underwent a difficult á
operation."
"I was on the Inter Rail in Naples alone. After an evening in a á
restaurant I was going back to the hotel when a prostitute á
approached me to sell herself. I refused but as I carried on á
walking I felt that I was being followed by someone."
On the scenic railway at the fairground.
"When my father suffered with dizziness. He had to be á
hospitalized, because the physician didn't know what was wrong. á
Because his stools were black, I thought it could be cancer."
"I was afraid when my first boyfriend threatened to make an end to á
our relationship because he didn't love me enough while I loved á
him very much."
Mugged while on holiday in the U.S.A.
"Skiing down a very icy slope, very fast in white-out conditions. á
Out of control with no idea of what I was doing or where I was á
heading."
I was scared in the dark when I was a little boy.
"When I was very young and we moved as a family to Auckland from á
Wellington, this meant new school and friends (etc.)."
"The same fact about the girl (22 years, married - guilt - á
disgust), the fear was the main factor in our relationship."
"I have been afraid several times. What marked me was that I á
almost didn't enter University."
"As a passenger in a vehicle travelling from the steep side of á
Arthur's Pass in the middle of a sleet-storm, icy roads, sheer á
chasms to one side, sheer face to the other."
"When I missed crashing, by a hair's breadth, into a man who came á
out 20 metres ahead of me when I was driving at 110km/h."
"I imagined I heard footsteps up the hall while sleeping in bed á
one night by myself in the house."
"Once I was stopped by the police in Spain, when I had some á
""grass"" in my tobacco."
"I feel afraid of the way a great friend looks at me, and also a á
little afraid of the directions that it's going."
Held under water by a large wave and thought I was drowning.
"A large german shepherd dog ran and barked at me (he didn't bite á
fortunately)."
Afraid of getting alone without friends, without anybody.
"When I was a child, one day, I was going home late at night and I á
did not notice an uncovered man hole and fell in it.  I was in there for á
several minutes."
"When I was curious about it and went to a spiritism session with a á
friend. I had already been there other times (many times when I á
was younger) but that day, even if I don't believe in á
spiritism I was terribly afraid that something would happen to m"
Canoeing across harbour in winds - 20 knots and rising seas.
"As a child, when I was at home alone, I felt in an indefinate á
manner afraid of the death of my father and mother."
"Almost crashing into the back of a car while driving along the á
motorway on my motorcycle."
When there is danger nearby.
A gang of screaming and drunk youths "captured" a tram.
"I went to see a movie and I went with a friend, it was really á
frightening and it made me stop and think about the world around á
me and what it is really like out there. I was frightened all á
that night."
"I felt afraid when I smoked maryhuana for the first time in my á
life with a lot of friends in the middle of the street at day á
brake."
"I was walking home one night (after getting a bus to my town) á
when I was confronted by a group of males (about 6), they would á
not let me pass - they made comments etc. - I crossed the road á
and hurried home."
"When I was looking for a job I felt a lot of fear but the fear á
was greater when I found it."
"Thinking that I had been seen smoking at school by a teacher - á
waiting to be summoned to the headmaster's office."
"I was teaching someone to drive and when we were about to crash I á
was scared."
"When we could not land our plane and we knew that the fuel was á
running out.  Bad weather had already frightened us."
Not included on questionnaire.
"When I was six years old we were on holiday in France. There was á
very heavy weather then."
"When my relationship with my family is very poor I often fear á
being excluded from the group, a fear which is stronger in á
situations when an argument is on hand."
"My father was away from home and he did not come back when he was á
expected, he came back several hours later than expected."
Fear to come and live in Nijmegen.
"When I was to sit for my first entrance exam. I had fear of a á
possible failure."
"Just before I started my study I had to move, I was very afraid á
to be left alone and that I could not manage it."
"I returned home late from a party last night and I felt afraid á
trying to anticipate the reaction of my father."
"In college, I started a discussion with the teacher referring to á
a question I posed. I felt very unsure and I was afraid to fail."
"I had the window open and the door was shut so that the kitten á
would not go out.  My partner came in and started talking about á
something and I forgot about the window and suddenly I saw the á
kitten hanging from the window frame. I was rigid with frig"
When I got in jungle where there was a great number of snakes.
"When I had left my home, my father, under false pretences, got me á
in his car and drove home where we were all alone. He was seethed á
with rage because I withrew from his authority. He hit me, kicked á
me and threatened me."
"When I almost drowned myself in the municipal swimming pool that á
I use to go almost not excaping."
I was bitten by a dog.
"I felt fear when once I was asleep and dreamed that I was dying á
asfixiated by a cardiac attack, I was afraid and woke up á
desperate. Altough I wasn't afraid of death I was afraid."
"One night at three o'clock I was followed by a cardriver, who á
tried to molest me."
"When I got lost in New York city a late friday night with a á
friend of mine."
When I dreamed that I was being attacked by a friend.
"I had a dream about my fiancTe leaving me and making an end to á
our relation."
I was raped by a friend.
Left alone in dark when young.
"I was alone in a cottage I often stay in.  I was woken up by a á
rustling sound in the middle of the night."
"Once, late at night, I was biking home and overtook a man. He á
said to me ""Hello darling"" I was terrified and imagined the á
wildest scenes."
"As a child I suffered of nightmares. Even since than, I have á
never been so anxious and fearful."
Every time I see a spider or a snake.
"I was walking alone in the street late at night (2.30 am). It was á
very quiet. Then a man approached me and said ""Hello""."
"When the relationship with my first girlfriend broke up and I á
realized it too late."
"Attempted rape by 5 guys - held my arms behind my back and á
molested me, constantly threatening to beat me. Penetration did á
not occur as the driver of the car stopped that."
"I found myself involved in a fight in which a person died and I á
had to intervene with some risk."
"Before Uni started, I had to leave home and take up residence in á
Brisbane (the ""big smoke"") leaving home, my family, and moving to á
such a big place was quite intimidating at first, and I was á
anxious about it."
Every time I meet a certain dog that has once bitten me.
Before I had a tooth pulled out.  I was very upset and ill.
At the dentist's, waiting for my turn to come.
"On embarking on University life. I came from a different city and á
did not know anybody at the Uni. I was frightened because my well á
known and loved friends, also all my security had been taken á
away."
"Together with a little brother I biked on a lonely road in the á
Polder. Then we were annoyed by a boy on a motorbike: he á
took over, stopped, took over, etc. Then we saw he had something á
in his hand, we turned until we came across a man, who á
accompa"
"One night going downstairs, and hearing a strong stirring of á
brances, which was not the wind."
"My father was very angry with me, and I locked me up in the á
shower. Then my father knocked his fist through the door, I was á
scared to death."
"When I was convinced that someonne had broken into my flat and I á
woke up and heard sounds that frightened me."
When I come home late at night.
"As a child - stepping on a rusty nail - being told that I might á
get tetanus."
"My grandmother several times has been struck by cerebral á
hemorrhages. Until now she recovered well each time, but there is á
always the threat to loose her."
"When I saw Russian roulette on TV. (obviously the movie ""Deer á
hunter"")"
Introducing myself at a first tutorial this year at University.
"I was walking in the wood at night with my boyfriend. Very á
romantic. Suddenly I heard a car driving very slowly with the á
lights out, it looked as if they were looking for something."
"Last Summer I was walking along the beach in a bikini and an á
awful man came cycling after me.  He was shouting and I ran as á
fast as my legs could carry me."
"When in a car accident where car was total wipe off (wipe out, or á
write off)."
"Once sitting in the cinema, I became very anxious (watching a á
""cold"" film). I do not know the reason."
[ Uncertainty about my own abilities in an exam.]
"On a holiday in France I made a walk in the woods all alone and á
very relaxed. Then a motorbike took me over and I saw the man á
watching all the time. Suddenly the man stood behing me and I ran á
away fast."
"A rainy day, I was cycling downhill and a car door suddenly á
opened and while trying to avoid it the back wheels of my bike á
got caught in the tram tracks.  I somersaulted but had no á
injuries."
A grenade blew out next to me.
"I went to the ballet lessons with a little friend in the dark. On á
a very quiet place a boy approached us from behind and asked at á
what time the lesson would be finished. I gave him an avoiding á
answer, he took me up and wanted to run away with me."
"I am thinking about death, the eternal of it, the unknown, the á
sense of being here. Often, laying in bed in the dark and quiet, á
the fear makes me feel dizzy."
"A friend and I were going to have a study session together in á
which we quiz ourselves in biology material. Because I believed I á
didn't study enough. I feared I would fail."
"A man in a car was following me when I went running early one á
morning in a fairly secluded area."
Before the examn.
At age 10 my foster grandmother died, I had a fear of dying.
"I was driving and stopped at a stop light. I was planning to make á
a right turn as soon as it was clear. It was clear on the left so á
I started but a man was just in front of the car."
I helped someone to do something and was found out.
I confronted a bigger person than I and almost got into a fight.
First time in anatomy.
"Alone in the house (late 8pm) I heard noises. Sounded like someone á
was trying to get in our back door."
Watching a horror film.
Walking in the dark I saw something strange.
"Housesitting and hearing the alarm go off. I knew someone had to á
be breaking in. I called the police and was panicking while on á
the phone. It was awful. It turns out that I stepped on the á
hidden alarm without prior knowledge of its existance."
"During one year my mother almost had a nervous breakdown and my á
father had a serious operation. I was afraid that our family (4 á
kids, I'm the oldest) wouldn't hold together. Everything turned á
out fine."
"Suddenly found out that I was the lasr one to leave the anatomy á
room."
Getting back my Psych 140 midterm.
A certain night during initiation. 
Saw a classmate knocked down by a motorcycle.
I could not do the questions on my math midterm.
"Staying alone in the room after midnight and reading horror á
stories."
"When I was going to bring back my girlfriend to LA to meet my á
parents."
When I saw the movie "Poltergist".
Going to take my driving test.
Talking about snakes.
"In 1960,  I was going to a school which was near my village and I á
met a lion on the way, which disappeared suddenly."
"When the doctor told me that there was something wrong with my á
eye and I had to undergo an operation."
Finding out about people can go mad for social reasons.
"I am afraid of my academic results as I will face several á
problems.  I am scared of my limitations and the unlimited á
problems and I do not know how to cope with them."
A relative died.
Before the first examn.
Before an important examn.
Being threatened by another person.
Got ill.
"After my shoulder operation, I woke up in the hospital room á
alone. I was in pain and was still under heavy medications. I á
could not find my parents."
Saw a snake unexpectedly.
Being alone in the room at night.
Someone frightened me in the dark.
Suddenly met someone in the biology building at night.
Heard some ghost-like noise at night.
"When I was watching a movie in which there was a pit full of á
dangers and there was only a small safe place on which a man was á
standing; he had to catch the lady who was thrown in or else ! á
The pit was 20 feet deep."
Being chased in the dark by someone I did not know.
"English papers are due on Friday. They are returned on Tuesday. á
This Tuesday I was afraid to go to class and get my paper because á
I knew it was bad."
Walking out from the biology building.
Fear of doing well on a midterm.
"When there was a bomb threat in Tolman Hall. This was the first á
time that I felt my life could be in danger."
Staying in a relative's house which was broken in before.
"I was driving on to a busy freeway during rush hour and it was á
slightly raining. A diesel truck was coming very close behind me á
and I was close behind a pick-up. I changed lanes and barely hit á
the truck and ran a Honda of the road. I was scared to d"
"Occured while preparing for a midterm in Social Welfare that I á
thought was going to be very hard and felt unprepared for."
"I asked someone to bring some present to my father and found out á
that he is not a reliable person. I was afraid if my father would á
not get the presents he would be angry with me."
Before I moved away from home, I feared leaving.
Doing anatomy alone for the first time.
"While skiing in Squaw Valley, I was riding up a chair lift and á
right when the chair was above a sheer cliff of rocks, the chair á
lift stopped and all the chairs sagged and everything seemed to á
creak loudly."
"Being involved in a car accident and having my thumb caught in á
the glove compartment. My sister and I had a Fear of finally á
telling my parents, since my sister was the driver."
Thinking about death when walking alone at night.
"Two summers ago my best friend and I drove into unknown mountains á
at midnight to pick up my broken car. We told one another á
horrifically scary ghost/murder stories and succeeded in scaring á
eachother pretty well - even though somewhere in our heads w"
First day back on the job.
Left alone in the biology building surrounded by empty buildings.
"I needed a recommendation for something. I decided that the best á
person to get one from was a professor who I had never talked to á
before. I felt a lot of fear going up after class to ask him to á
recommend me considering he had never heard my name bef"
"When  first came to CAL I went to a rally on Sproul and I later á
learned that the rally was conducted by the Moonie cult. They á
were taking pictures at the rally, so I was afraid that they á
would circulate the pictures and then kidnap people. I did not"
Reading a horror story alone.
"I feared that my dog's eye was infected too much. He had played á
around in the weeds and a foxtail had gotten under his eyelid. I á
took him to the vet and I feared that he may go blind because of á
the foxtail."
Anatomy lesson and told we have to do it at night sometimes.
"I was on this amusement park ride at Marriots Great America. It á
went way up in the air and then around and around. Heights are á
not my favorite spots in life."
"I was physically assaulted and sexually abused about a year ago. á
Just the feeling that I might not get away intact, or even alive, á
produced fear."
Getting ill.
"My apartment has had three robberies in the last month. The guy á
upstairs just got robbed making it the fourth."
"When my exboyfriend threw me around the dorms because I was á
talking on the phone to another guy of whom he was jealous, á
after we had an argument in which I thought we broke up."
"I was to meet one of my friends (girl) at the library at 8:00 á
already dark. She would be walking alone. She was 45 minutes late á
but I kept waiting, calling her room and other places she could á
have been."
Finding out that I made a stupid mistake in the examn.
"My mom called early in the morning (On a Monday) and I had just á
seen her that weekend. I couldn't understand what could be so á
important as to make her call at such a strange hour. I missed á
the call and had to call her back that afternoon."
Hearing a strange noise in the biology building.
"Upon reading a story on a serial killer by the name of Henry Lee á
Lucas who has been given the distinction of killing more people á
that any other man. I began to wonder if I should take more care á
for my safety."
Finding out that a boy I do not like is in love with me.
"One summer when I was camping with friends they devised and á
elaborate plan to scare me by having our camp attecked by a wild á
animal (one of them) and then convincing the campground was á
the home of a satanic organization."
"When I was little I lost control of my bike and started to go á
into a buay intersection but my neighbor stopped me just in time."
"Finding out in your lecture that a doctor can make misdiagnoses á
because of ignorance in neuropsychology."
"A time when I was very afraid of something was when I broke my á
father's antique lamp."
"Walking through campus at night a squirrel jumped in front of á
me."
I was alone and someone tried to break in from our back door.
When I had to walk home in the dark for the first time. 
Staying alone in the biology building after the dark.
"When I began school at UC. The pre-enrollment the classes, and á
the question of success really scared me."
"One day before Christmas, I went shopping with my brother and his á
friend. We had a good time. But on the way home we were almost in á
an accident because the weather was bad."
My boat running into another boat.
"after getting a fail notice for a math class, I realized I was á
not doing very well in school in any subject. I began to fear á
failing a class or two."
Going to CAL not knowing anyone.
"My roommate refused to walk with me to the English lectures. I á
have to walk alone in the dark. Lectures are in the biology á
building."
Taking a chemistry midterm.
"Waiting for my girlfriend to come from her apt. to mine. She was á
very late and I thought something awful had happened."
I was afraid that I would fail an examination.
Walking in the dark and thinking about ghost stories.
"An hour before receiving the certificate results I was very á
frightened.  When I saw others crying I felt very tense and as á
time went by my fear grew."
"The hero was chased by a terrible vampire in a suspense and á
horror film shown on T.V."
"I was at home and we were sleeping when we heard some robbers á
breaking into our house."
"I was not prepared for the exam but I wanted to sleep the night á
before the exam."
"I was afraid when I learnt that my father was seriously ill in á
hospital."
Once while crossing a road I was overcome with fear.
When the robbers broke in, at night.
"The day my parents were involved in a car accident and had to be á
operated  and before the operation the doctor said that it was á
mater of life or death."
An inter-college basket-ball match.
"I remember that my form 2 teacher was very fierce and dogmatic.  á
My feet would tremble whenever I saw her but I had to face the fact that á
I had to go for her class. "
Whenever I think of enrolling in Organic Chemistry.
"My friend and I had offended our classmate unintenionally.  We á
wanted to apologize to her so we decided to visit her.  We knew that she á
was stubborn so we were frightened.  When we rang her door bell, á
our fear was at it's climax"
"I was walking home from a place on southside and I live on á
Northside and I was followed. I headed my most direct route."
"I was river rafting in Nev. and our boat tipped over and I was á
sucked under in to some rocks and got stuck and all I could think á
was that I was going to die. And it was so quiet under the water á
it seemed like no one would care or remember."
Looking for the toilet in a dark place.
"I felt fear when my friend and I broke into an abandoned military á
base in Los Angeles this summer. I feared because I didn't want á
to be caught."
"I feared that I would not be able to hand in the book-report on á
time as I had started working very late.  The book was difficult á
to read and my teacher did not accept my work as it was handed in á
late."
I was scared of water when I was a child.
"When I got the midterm exam results, the results were below á
average and were near the lowest.  I was scared of the final á
exam."
"When I dreamt that my family was in trouble and was facing many á
difficulties."
[ While approaching to test the situation.]
"This last August when my parents dropped me off and moved me into á
college I didn't know anybody here; I was 17 and Berkeley really á
scared me."
"When I was at a boarding school at Lusaka, the Rhodesian á
soldiers came to bomb a house near our school and we saw the á
whole scene."
"In 1977 when my friend was caught by a crocodile.  We were á
swimming in a river on whose banks our primary school was á
situated.  When my friend was caught, he was on the banks of the á
river and some of us were still in the middle of the river.  I á
wa"
"The exam was drawing near and I wanted to prepare for it.  But I á
had a lot of other things to do so I did not have much time to prepare  á
for the exams.  Whenever I sat down to study I was scared that I would  á
not be able to finish it."
"When I learnt that the girl I had impregnated was in hospital and á
was on the verge of dying as she had refused to accept the á
responsibility of her pregnancy and had wanted to commit suicide."
"When burglars with guns forced themselves into my house and á
ordered me to give them money or face death."
"During the first year in university I had bad results in both á
the terms, especially the first term.  I was afraid that  I would á
not be promoted to the next year and that the others would go á
ahead of me."
Whhen the front tyre of the car burst.
I am scared when I stroll alone on the Chung Chi college campus. 
"I was working at a certain place and everyday after work dad á
would come to pick me up.  One day he did not come, it started á
getting very dark and I had no money on me and my home was very, á
very far away."
"Last night, I dreamt that things that looked like monsters were á
trying to kiss me."
"When thieves broke into my house at night and held my wife and me á
on gun-point for at least ten minutes and took away a lot of á
property."
"The time I drove my uncle's car, without having asked for his á
permission.  It was the first time that I was driving a car."
"The day I was nearly stabbed to death by ruffians who wanted to á
take my money.  I refused to give them any money and they started á
running after me, I ran into somebody else's house to save á
myself."
"Whenever I am alone in a dark room, walk alone on the street, á
sleep alone in the room at night or see something which is only á
partly visible.  This emotion was very strong when as an 8 year   á
old child I saw something horrible.  "
"When my neighbour's life was threatened by someone who was trying á
to break into his house."
"When I went home and there was nobody, I waited till 2 A.M and      á
still nobody.  I was suddenly scared and anxious as this had never á
happened before.  In addition my mother was very weak and I á
feared that she had met with an accident.  Therefore I"
"One evening when my sisters, brothers and I were watching T.V my á
kid brother took a big mirror and reflected light on the french á
windows.  I thought that these lights that we could see were á
coming from torches annd that it meant that there were thie"
"When I witnessed a bus accident in which a bus, full of passengers, á
 nearly overturned on the Lusaka-Kabwe road.á
"
"I was camping in an old broken hut which had no lights.  I had á
brought along a lamp which was not working very well.  The door á
made strange sounds and I was sure that strange things were á
happening.  The most terrifying bit was that there were many á"
"I got a very nasty electrical shock when I was tampering with á
some electrical applainces.á
"
When I thought that I had failed the examination.
"Once I was caught by thugs aged between 20-35, they asked me to á
surrender all the property I had and I remember feeling very scared."
"One day when I was a little boy, my friends asked me to play á
with them outside and to catch some boys.  However our parents á
did not know that we were out and when I got home it was very á
late and I feared being scolded by my parents."
"When I received the higher level exam results, I mistook the á
grade E in mathematics for a grade F and I was shocked."
When I was chased by a big dog near my house.
"When my mother was seriously ill and had to be admitted to the á
hospital."
"Waiting for the results of the High level examination.  I was á
afraid of not being accepted."
"While drinking a soft drink, I had the impression of swallowing   á
a piece of glass so I went to the district hospital and got á
admitted there."
When my father was involved in an accident.
"My best frieend left school recently.  The next day the weather á
turned bad suddenly and the male class-mates turned off the á
lights.  I remained on the table and was scared."
"When I was first exposed to the dead bodies, for dissecting        á
purposes at the school of medicine."
"Tutorial again !  A fearful feeling came to me when I sat on the á
chair and looked at my fellow students all around.  I was really á
scared that they would ask me some questions or challenge the á
ideas that I had presented."
"Once I woke up in the middle of the night and felt frightened as á
everyone else was sleeping and I could not even go to their á
room."
"When I was going home for my holiday, I almost drowned in the á
Zambezi river."
When I saw a horrible movie - Alien.
"I was walking along the passage to my room (very near the anatomy á
laboratory) and I heard something and felt that there was some á
thing behind me.  I looked back and there was no one.  I started á
imagining that maybe it was a corpse."
"Once at midnight, I was working alone at office and the phone á
suddenly rang."
When my sister was very ill and was admitted to the hospital.
"The first time that I saw a dead person.  This was when I started á
my gross anatomy practicals."
"Once while walking along a hill; I fell down out of carelessness á
and I broke my left arm."
When I was left alone at home one night by my brother.
When I was walking along a road alone on my way to go shopping.
"When I was first taken to the dissection room where I found 10 dead á
human bodies."
"When I had to talk to some strangers, from whom I was expecting a á
negative answer."
"When I was about to be bitten by my friend's dog, later on it bit á
me."
"A friend gave me a lift and we met a road-block.  He tried  to á
turn back when an officer shouted at us to stop.  My friend took a á
turn suddenly and the officer raised his gun but by the time we á
were gone."
"When I lost a wallet while travelling, since it belonged to the á
group I was very afraid."
"After the interview for admission to the university and before á
the admission list was disclosed.  I was scared that I would not á
be admitted and my fear lasted for quite some time.  My fear á
disappeared only after the list was disclosed."
When going to the exam.
"When our school was raided by the pupils of the boys secondary á
school who beat us up."
"One night we were having a barbecue on the beach and I needed to á
go to my car, which was far away from the beach.  It was very á
dark as there were no street lamps.  I ran in the dark, very á
scared, I ran as fast as possible."
"During the last academic year i.e 1983/1984 just before the á
closure, we were surrounded and threatened by the paramilitary á
forces."
"One day a fierce looking man came to our house  and said that my á
father should apologize to him, however I was alone at home."
"The first day that I was close to a dead body, in my third year á
at UNZA, school of medicine."
When mother was very ill, I feared that she would die.
"Once, before I had learnt to swim, I stepped on a slippery slope á
where there was a lot of moss and I slipped into the water.  The á
water was very deep and I could not stand on my feet.  I sank á
and had to use a lot of energy."
"We were driving on a very dusty road at night and the driver á
tried to overtake a very big truck only to find another big truck á
parked right in front."
"When I took the first year university exams and made a lot of á
mistakes in the P110 exam.  I was afraid of failing and thus á
being unable to go to the school of medicine."
"My 80 year old grandfather underwent three successive operations á
during a single year.  The third operation was risky and I was á
scared that he would die and feared that my grandmother would be á
very sad."
"I was so sick that my relatives thought that I was bewitched.  I á
felt like dying."
When I forgot the lines of the play during an orientation camp.
When I went to my first dental appointment.
"When I entered the dissecting room for the anatomy class and saw á
several dead bodies lying on the benches."
"The day before the university results came out I was both excited á
and scared.  If I failed I did not know what I would do as I did á
not want to work, my family was ambivalent."
"When I entered the dissection room for the first time and was á
exposed to preserved dead human bodies."
"When the time came for me to see dead bodies and to operate on á
them."
Ran into a parking car on a bicycle.
"Fear of the turn that the examination paper would take as I á
lacked confidence."
"When my mother met with a serious accident and there was danger á
that she would not survive and if she did she would loose á
her memory."
"When I was a kid, I always opened the door to greet my father á
when he came back from work.  One day it so happened that his á
hair was scattered due to over-crowding in the train, and when I á
opened the door as usual I saw something else.  I was so sca"
"When I heard that my father had found a letter from my boyfriend á
and he was calling me to talk about it."
"When I came to know that my exams were on two successive days and á
that there was very little time (about 9-10 hours) to study in á
between."
When I was going to take the practical exams.
"I was in the house at night and I heard a hyena crying outside. á
It cried for almost an hour and I feared it might break the á
window and enter inside the house."
"My brother lost his temper and started smashing things in the á
house.  I was quite scared, that something terrible might happen, á
till the situation was brought under control."
When a thief entered the house in which I was sleeping.
"While I was pushing a court roller out of a ditch, I slipped and á
fell down and the roller rolled back towards me -down slope-It is á
a miracle that I still have my legs intact."
"I was playing with friends then I decided to splash some sand á
into a car which was moving nearby. The driver got angry and came á
to report to my parents."
"I broke a window of a neighbouring house and I feared my mother's á
judgement and action on what I had done."
"It was the time when I was in no position to secure a Ist class á
in the M.Sc exam and this was likely to affect my career."
"I felt the above condition when I took my brother's bicycle to a á
market and unfortunately the bicycle was stolen and I didn't know á
how I could tell the owner about the stolen bicycle."
"When I dream of anything terrifying I used to have fear for the á
rest of the day that the dream might come true e.g., being beaten á
(or eaten ?) by a snake."
"I was living with my brother and one day he went away on business á
and I was left alone to look after the house and the property. At á
night thieves came and wanted to break into the house."
"I was afraid when my mother left me alone to live in our house á
for one month."
"I was moving in the graveyard at 6.00 pm one day and was griped á
by fear because I was told that ghosts detain people moving there á
at night."
"In March I was busy studying during the night I could only sleep á
two or three hours only for fear that I would be weeded and sent á
back."
"When I saw a dead body in the mortuary I became afraid and I was á
filled with fear."
"I felt so afraid when dad fell ill, he had never suffered from á
that disease since and I had never seen him as he was."
I may not be clever enough to understand your English lectures.
When I was treated improperly by someone.
Before an examn.
"On May 20th I got a summon to appear in court on May 28th 1985 on á
the subject of impregnanting a school girl. I really feared of á
standing in the court in a few days time after this notice. I was á
also embarassed due to formal approach that was expect"
"I had a cousin whom I loved so much. Unfortunately she passed á
away suddenly and one time I had a dream in which I was talking á
to her yet she is dead."
"My friend had been telling me about a certain bird which when it á
cries at night it's the sign that someone will die. So one night I á
was alone in the house and I heard the cry of the bird and I was á
afraid."
"I once felt that my last hour had come when I was unexpectedly found á
in the hands of."
"When I heard a rumour that the 1st year exam results were out. I á
had fear that I might be one of the failures."
"I was fearful when I realised that the relish was overcooked á
simply because I was not keen enough at checking whether there á
was still enough water in the relish or not, instead I was just á
playing with my friends."
"When I was feeding a premature baby (7 months), the baby chocked. á
This was when I was working in children's ward I thought I had á
killed the baby."
Staying in the room alone at night.
"Sometime back I used to stay with my mum alone then time came á
when dad joined the family from his working place I found myself á
having fear for him for no cause at all."
When I did not get the compound which is known.
"I was sleeping alone in the house at night. A boy putting on a á
short only knocked at the window whispering that I should open á
for him."
"I was on my way home when suddenly Gule Wamkulu came from the á
bush and blocked the road. I was in fear and didn't know what to á
do."
Almost had a bicycle accident.
"I was asked to join my friend in a boat at Mangochi Lake Malawi á
and when making a turn, it seemed as if the boat would sink on á
the side."
"You may find out that I am stupid and not to let me do your á
experiment."
Before the examn.
"I was afraid when I met my Uncle because this time I was with my á
boyfriend I thought I was not going to be given pocket money."
"I was very scared when I went to the examination hall for my M.Sc á
examination as I had studied a limited partion of the course á
thoroughly and I was in great doubt whether that would be asked."
"I was very scared at the time of the Ty.B.Sc examination as I had á
decided to get 1st class results.  I was afraid thinking of how á
the papers would be."
"I went to the prayer meeting at night and unfortunately the car á
broke down, so my other sister said I had to walk alone from á
Ndirande to Chirimba at around midnight. So we reached home at á
1 am. I was afraid of robbers and dardness."
"The emotion came when I misbehaved at school and the Principal á
threatened me that I was going to be expelled."
"My friend started to misunderstand and hurt me.
"
"When it was found that I had gone out of the school premises á
without permisssion and at the wrong time."
"When the week for Exams came. I got afraid as to how I would á
tackle the questions."
"My brother had bowel obstruction, having heard that he was going á
for surgery, I was afraid he might not come back to life after á
hearing of the General Anaesthesia."
"When I heard that there is teasing and bulling at Secondary á
School."
"Sometime back, my boyfriend and I were having a walk nearby my á
parent's house. Suddenly we met my grandfather and I was á
afraid that he would report to my parents."
"One time I set up my journey at night going to a certain bar. On á
the way I met my friends and they told me that two people had á
died because of heavy fighting. I proceeded on but with fear."
"I and my cousin went to a filmshow at night. We went without á
making it known to my mother. While we were there at interval, I á
came across my mother just close to where we sat."
"When we were going to Nkhoma last Saturday the vehicle was moving á
very fast, so I feared we might crash since the road was too á
rough."
"It was last week on Saturday night when I was at Mchesi. I feared á
to cross the Lilongwe River Bridge to come back to School due to á
darkness - until somebody had to escort me."
"I broke my Uncle's Radio player accidentally and so I feared that á
he was going to cut me off from going to his house as well as á
playing it again."
"One day I was busy day dreaming along the road and suddenly I á
heard the sound of jamming car braked behind me. I woke up from á
my dreams and it was about to crash me."
When I was called for an Interview at Kamuzu College of Nursing.
"Somebody told her friend that she would hit me wherever we would á
meet."
"One time I was injured when I was playing football at School in á
Blantyre. I was brought to the hospital while my leg was totally á
swollen. The x-rays confirmed there was no fracture but á
collection of blood n the muscles. I feared when they started to"
"We went fishing some 5 or 8 kilometers off the shore of Lake á
Malawi. Before we could settle down the lake became very rough to á
the point of threatening our lives."
"I was with my boyfriend forgetting that I had left the house á
unlocked. Unfortunatly a thief came and stole all the kitchen á
utensils. Thereafter I was afraid of the consequences."
"I was studying in class at night. I was in Form II by then. There á
were rumours about an earthquake. That night dogs were chasing á
one another and passed through the window outside the classroom. á
Those who saw the dogs thought it was a lion and were t"
"I felt fear when one night my aunt and Uncle left me alone at á
their house to look after the baby when they went to a party."
"My father gave me money for school fees and I didn't pay school á
fees instead I spent it on beer and did not tell him about this."
"As we were going to Area 10 a dog chased me. I was afraid it á
might bite me."
"When one of my relatives went out at night leaving me and my á
friend alone, I cheated my parents that she didn't go out, after á
they had heard that she was out, I was afraid that she might have á
beaten me."
"When I came home late one day. I was afraid I would be shouted at á
by my parents."
"As I was in a ward one man died and I was instructed to watch the á
last offices. But this was my first time to see a dead person - á
fear came."
When I was told to attend an operation in theatre.
Afraid of a dead body.
"At night when I was coming from Lingadzi Inn I heard a hyena á
crying in the Lingadzi jungle. I was alone."
"I was given a wristwatch by my first girl and after two days á
another girl of mine also gave me a wristwatch."
"I was afraid to walk through the forest one day when I dropped á
off the bus around 6.30 pm."
"As I was taking venous blood from another patient I introduced á
air into the place of puncturing and there was a swelling which á
is dangerous to the patient hence I became afraid."
"When I had crossed Lilongwe forest I heard that there was a rabid á
hyena just near the path in the forest."
"I was afraid when my boyfriend came home because my parents á
disapproved him of his coming home. I thought they would chase me á
out of the house."
When my friend was involved in a car accident.
"It was when I stepped on a python (snake) unknowingly while it á
was sleeping near a baobab tree."
"I had fear when I was left alone at the bus depot at night. I had á
problems of how to move to this place."
"Fear came towards the end of May when the P.T.S. results were out á
after hearing the failure of my fellow three friends."
"I was alone walking in a deserted part of the city and I had some á
fear that some men would attack me and rob me."
"I was looking after my father's sheen in the forest. One day á
while playing with friends from neighbouring villages the flock á
escaped me and went into a far place. It became dark and I was á
afraid of father. I went home and hid myself."
"At primary school I was accused by some boys of being in love á
with a certain girl in their class so they had to shout and beat á
the girl and the matter was reported to the headmaster."
"When I stepped on a snake at home, it was dark but there was á
moonlight."
"I was walking alone along the place where people fear that there á
are always thieves there and the people who kill their friends á
during the night two months ago."
"One day during our clinical practices, we had a very ill patient. á
Unfortunately the patient passed away. I had seen him dying and á
it was the first experience. During the night I became afraid á
fearing the dead body."
"When two hyenas made crying noise on the window of my bedroom at á
home when I was preparing for my MCE examination during the á
night."
When I was travelling at night.
"After I was thrown out of a car in an accident, this resulted in á
a fracture."
"When I was travelling home by bus and suddenly the bus hit and á
the bus leaned against a wall."
"I had a very horrible dream one night, I dreamt that I had fallen á
off a very crowded train."
"I had gone to the hospital for my research and got late in á
reaching home.  I feared that when I reached home there would be á
a quarrel because of my being late."
"When my brother had an epileptic attack and I was scared as to á
what would happen to him."
Beaten up by a classmate in school.
"I have done the teachers training course (B.Ed).  During our á
training I was asked to handle the ninth standard class in a boys á
school.  I was scared to face the class the first day."
Staying alone in a dark place.
"[ I have always been very scared and tense before an exam and á
before the declaration of the results.]"
"While trying to board a train I missed the footsteps and fell á
down on the platform."
Watching a horror film.
"I had fear of my father (parents) when I first became pregnant. I á
was afraid of delivery itself and whether I would give birth to a á
stiiborn or a baby."
"When I was 20 years old, I fell severely ill and was bed-ridden for á
6 months.  I felt very scared for my health and my studies."
When I decided to separate from my husband.
Getting ill.
"It so happened that while staying at anaunt's place I discovered á
that I was afraid of sleeping in pitch darkness.  The room á
which my sister and I were sharing had no light, and I would á
refuse to sleep without having the light of the adjoining á
bath"
Almost had a bicycle accident.
"When for the first time I rode on a motorcycle with my brother.  á
He was going so fast that I felt that I would fall off without my á
brother realizing it."
"I was in a garden one evening and I saw a snake coming towards á
me."
Before an examn.
"I was sitting on an electric swing, suddenly the machine went á
out of order while I was still in the upward position."
Diagnosis that I have a stomache ulcer.
[ No response.]
When I was coming back home alone at night.
"Finding out that my health condition may be against my attending á
university lectures."
"Finding out the great difference between China and the West in á
science."
"In the recent lightning storm, bolts of lightning were hitting á
close by (1/8 mile). I was in bed at the time and was afraid I á
might be struck."
"While swimming, I hit my head at the bottom of the pool and á
required stitches. I later learned that the consequences could á
have been much more severe and that terrified me."
Before the examn.
I felt fear when I was young and left in my big house all alone.
I got caught shoplifting a package of gummy bears.
My friend will find out that I am in love with her.
Speaking in front of a large group of people.
Going out alone in the dark.
First time in anatomy.
"I overturned in a canoe a few years back and I didn't know how to á
swim. Although I had a life-jacket on I still panicked."
"That day I was alone at home after coming home from school.  I did á
not know where everyone else had gone, I kept waiting for them to á
come back and nobody came.  It was getting very late and I was á
terrified."
"I'm afraid of not being able to go to the school I want because á
of suffering grades."
Walking home in the dark from college.
That I would do bad in a class and not get into Bus school.
When my B.A results had not come.
Staying alone in the dark.
"When I got to know that the friend I am closest to got engaged, á
and she was going away.  I was overjoyed for her, but also felt á
frightened as I was very emotionally dependent on her.  I did not á
know what I would do without her."
"A few weeks back my daughter had very high fever and I was scared á
that it might lead to brain damage or convulsions."
Earth crake.
"I was coming home from a relative's place and it was about á
9.30/10 P.M.  I felt slightly apprehensive when I got off the bus á
and started walking towards my place.  I was confident that á
nothing would happen to me, yet there was this slight feeling of"
On my second plane trip, we ran into unexpected turbulence.
Telling my parents that I did not well in an examn.
"When I had to travel alone, unescorted for the first time.     It á
was an over-night journey by train to a distant place."
[ I have not felt this emotion yet.]
"I was scared when I realized that I might miss the train which I á
was supposed to take.  I was 1500 Kilometres away from home and when  á
I heard the depart whistle I was still 150 feet away from the á
train.  I finally made it."
"Waking up from a bad dream in a dark night with noone else á
around."
"I was then in the 10th standard and was going to my native place. á
 The last bus had already left and so I started walking, it soon á
became quite dark.  The road was a village road and was deserted, á
I was not even sure if that was the right way.  I fi"
"One of my fellow students had bunked field work and in my attempt á
to cover up for him I myself was exposed, though not directly.  á
We were to meet our field work suprevisor and we were afraid of á
the consequences."
Damaged the tap in the residental Hall.
"A few weeks back I had a very important seminar and I had á
circulated my papers to all the panel members.  A day before the á
seminar I realized that I had inadvertantly burdened certain       á
derivations and I had failed to correct it.  I feared that "
Lost my purse, the money in the purse belonged to my parents.
"When I was in my village one of my enemies had written a á
non-sense letter to a girl and he told the father of this girl á
that I was the culprit.  When I got to know this I was scared as  á
the girl's father was a worse man."
"At the age of 16 I had gone to see a film in a nearby village, á
about 8 kms  from my home.  I started walking as there was no á
bus.  I had to cross hills and as it was dark I could not á
identify the path.  Half way through it started raining and as á
t"
Could not find my way out in the college building at night.
[ Never experienced.]
"I received a letter from my college telling me that I would not á
be allowed to sit for the exams because of my low attendance in á
class and the bad experience in the terminal exams."
Before examination.
"My illness a few years back.  I was sevely down with malaria and á
asthma, I had lost my health, charm and cheerfulness completely."
Walking on a dark street with noone around.
"When I did not get admission in M.Sc after my B.Sc, I felt really á
bad.  When I started my journey to Bombay, after having accepted á
my uncle's offer to come to Bombay, I was afraid, wondering if I  á
would succeed or not. "
"Once I was very frightened at night as I had a very fearful and á
terrifying dream, I could not go back to sleep for a long time."
Fighting with class mates in Highschool.
"When I walked to church with my roommate, a bum told us to call á
the police and he started following us."
Before the declaration of the S.S.C results.
"I felt afraid just before receiving the question paper of the á
part II exam."
[ Never.]
"I experienced fear when I was not prepared for the final year á
degree exams."
Finding out that I am not an as able student as I thought.
When I almost walked on a snake.
[ No response.]
Listening to horrot stories at night.
"When I was working in Delhi, I had gone alone to see the hostel á
where I would be residing."
Facing a mad dog.
"Once when I was walking alone at mid-night, I happened to put my á
foot on a frog, as it felt smooth I thought that it was a snake  á
and I felt afraid. á
á
"
Left alone in the dining hall at night.
Walking alone in the dark in a strange street.
Just arrived in the university, not knowing anybody.
Left alone in the dark in a big building.
[ I do not recall one here either.]
"Fear is an emotion that I experience very often.  Naturally this á
is during exams and subsequently while waiting for the results.  á
However there is one occassion when I was paralyzed with fear.  á
This was when I was doing my M.A.-I, and we had a serie"
Going to the examn not well prepared.
"This was when I was being followed home every day from the campus, á
by a stranger.  He would follow me to the campus and then sit á
outside my class.  If I was not there he would ask my friends as á
to where I was.  He was a dark, ominous looking person "
"When I had gone to a school picnic and was left behind in the á
forest."
Getting lost in a strange place.
"As a child, one evening I had read a novel about ghosts and I had á
thus spent a sleepless night as I kept feeling that there were á
ghosts dancing around me."
"One day, early morning my mother who is healthy fell ill.  There á
was no doctor or compounder near by and for a few hours -8 A.M to á
6 P.M she did not speak a single sentence, nor did she drink water á
or  milk.  There was no movement in her body and I "
"When my son fell off the cot at the age of 5 months, I became á
very nervous and thought that it would cause defects in his head.  "
When I was told that the form five results were out.
"A boy phoned me at night and wanted to talk to me for 30 minutes á
outside.  I thought that he would reveal what he felt and would á
question me on our relationship.  I treated him as a friend and á
did not want any misunderstandings.  Therefore I refused"
When a thunder belt hit the roof top of the building I was in.
"I found a problem in homework which would not get solved although á
I tried my best."
"I felt very frightened when a robber broke into our house and á
threatened to shoot my father if he did not part with some money. á
 I was looking at the man with his hand on the trigger."
"On Christmas eve,1984, I had just finished the exams and was á
afraid as the results of one of my major subjects had been very á
unsatisfactory.  I thought that I had only a 50% chance of á
passing.  Even if I failed this subject I would not need to á
rep"
"Birds had made nests in our thatched roof and they were flying á
and flapping their wings in the bedroom at night.  It was very á
dark and I could not even see my nose.  I did not know that it á
was the birds till my mother told me so."
When I met an elephant in the bush.
"I did not do well in one of the subjects last term.   I was á
afraid that I would fail.  My result was a grade D, though it was á
not good I still passed.  I felt more comfortable then.  "
"I was sleeping when I heard the neighbours screaming, I peeped á
through the window and saw a thief  trying to enter my á
neighbour's house."
"At noon one Sunday I received a phone call telling me that my á
mother had been knocked down by a car at the street crossing and á
that her husband should go and see her.  I could not believe this á
as my father and my mother had gone out together to buy "
"When I was young I got lost on the street and the police found me á
after a day."
"When thieves broke into our neighbour's house and later we heard á
gunshots."
"My father had been involved in a car accident two years ago.  I á
was then very scared thinking that he would die as he lay á
unconscious in hospital for two weeks."
"When I first came to the UNZA I did not know the kind of people I á
would find here and the kind of behaviour they would have towards á
me."
"One camping night, I listened to the ghost stories told by my á
classmates.  "
"I was caught doing something I was not supposed to do.  I did á
something with the person who caught me (bribe) and even though á
he promised not to report me, I am still frightened."
When I was walking around all alone at night.
"My parents were out and I was the eldest at home.  At midnight a á
male stranger phoned us and spoke to me in a rough language.  I á
hung up and heard someone walking outside our door."
After having taken an exam i feared having failed it.
"When my little sister was sick at home and I thought that she á
would die."
"My uncle was taken to the UTC for an operation as he had cancer.  á
There had been a lot of deaths of late - 3 out of every 4 á
operated.  I was scared for my uncle's life."
"I went home late one evening and saw that the security lights á
were off.  I got inside the gate and just then I realized that á
the dogs may be outside."
"When I was confronted by a policeman one night around 11 o'clock. á
 I was afraid when they threatened to take me and my girl to the á
gallows."
"I had gone for a medical check-up at the U.T.H and failed to make á
it back on time for the C119 practical sessions at 1400 hours á
last academic year."
"When I came back from work one day, the friends of my son told me á
that he had not come back from school and that he was lost."
"After listening to ghost stories with my classmates I had to back á
alone to the hostel at night.  I had to walk through a long and á
quiet road and I was scared of meeting a ghost."
"After seeing a horror film - Omen.  I could not sleep at night  á
even though I closed my eyes.  The last scene of the film kept á
coming back to me, I seemed to hear the girls in the film á
shouting at the devil.  The devil did not have any expression on"
"It was a week before the higher level results were announced.  I á
had tried and failed many times and this was the last time that á
I was taking the exam.  I knew that if i failed again I woulld á
have to enter the society.  I imagined things during this"
"I was a passenger in a vehicle when suddenly another vehicle came á
from behind to overtake us.  However another one was coming right á
in front so the other vehicle changed course and blocked our way á
and so we crashed against the side of the road."
"Once, when I was ten, I could not remember why my mother was so á
angry.  She fainted suddenly and I was very scared as I did not á
know what to do ."
"Two guys were fighting murderously and I feared that one of them á
would be killed."
"One year, when I went to a camp, I was chased by a dog.  I tried á
hard and finally managed to escape from it.  My torch suddenly á
went off and we talked about ghost stories and I thought that á
there were ghosts."
"When my neighbour's house was broken into and shots could be á
heard."
"When I was an exploration with my friends and almost got lost in á
an unfamiliar environment.  It was getting dark and we did not á
know how to get back home."
"I was on a trip to Phillipines during Summer and I was staying in á
a hotel.  The room I was staying in was very silent and had very á
dim lights.  The last night I felt frightened and lay awake - I á
could hear some sounds around me and dared not open my"
When I had to walk along a dark road alone.
"We were driving at night and I realized that a car was following á
us."
"When I saw an accident, a woman was run over and she died on the á
spot."
"When I took blood from a patient for alcohol estimation and á
urine for some other examination, he told me that something bad á
would happen to me as he would play magic on me."
"At primary school the teacher caught me cheating during a á
dictation."
"When I impregnated a certain girl, I thought that I would be á
forced to marry her or go to court."
"When a drunkard barged into a room where my friend and I had run á
in order to get away from him.  We were all alone and all I could á
see was this hand coming towards me."
"When we forced a friend to chew a poisonous herb in primary á
school.  His tongue was swollen and he told his mother about it.  á
The mother reported it to the headmaster who threatened to expel á
us."
[ No response.]
"The day the results of the certificate exam came out.  I went to á
school and at first I did not feel frightened.  By the time I á
reached the fourth floor ( the results were being given on the á
fifth floor) I found it difficult to walk and felt that I w"
"I was walking through a thick forest and there was a big snake at á
a distance of about four metres."
"When I was young I had gone to an old lift and played with the á
antique lift.  The guy discovered me and warned me, I was very á
frightened."
"At night when I was alone at home (all the family members usually á
get together at that time) someone knocked vigorously on the á
door."
"The day I encountered a queer mamba face to face in a chunk of á
leaves behind our house."
"I had a date with a boy, but I didn't feel liked, and didn't go, á
I wasn't home purposely at the time we arranged."
"When I secretly tried smoking for the first time, being 12 years á
old."
"Once, my friend and I went to the Tai 60 to cycle.  My mother had á
told me not to go.  Unfortunately I broke my pectoral girdle and á
had to go to hospital.  When my mother  came to see me I felt á
guilty as I had not listened to her and I had to soon si"
"When I crashed by bike into an old lady crossing a road and á
knocked her down."
"I slammed my little brother into a wall because he was bothering á
me."
"When my boyfriend was away, I flirted with his best friend; I á
felt guilty the next day."
"When being illoyal (disloyal) to people close to me. Had such an á
episode with my sister, who should have received my support and á
attention."
"I was travelling in a bus from school going home for holiday. In á
the bus unfortunately I stepped on a bag in which there were á
delicate things."
"I was very angry with a girlfriend for interferring a little too á
much with my personal affairs. I told her so rather strongly and á
she started crying."
"At the age of 12 (or so) I stole from a Ranger's fruit tree an á
apple. (And eventually was compelled to confess - Dostoersky á
would like this)."
"I took my grandmother's money without telling her and when asked á
if it was me who had taken the money, I denied it."
Not handing in homework in time.
"I was using my sister's stereo while everyone was out. I know she á
wouldn't want me to and I would get into trouble if she found á
out. But she was only partly justified in forbidding me to use á
it. She never found out."
"When I was about 17 years old and I stole some pens from a á
stationery store because I didn't have enough money."
"When I was a child I used to play with my cousin gushing wather á
to each other in front of the door of my house. One day we á
decided to gush with on a passing car. The driver stopped and á
went to discuss with my mother and my aunt that were there."
"Guilty when I hadn't walked my dog for quite a few days and had á
given her no attention."
"I beat my young sister because she refused to wash plates. She á
started crying and I felt sorry and guilty for what I did."
"I was supposed to fetch some friends at the bus stop, but I did á
not do it because my father was in a bad mood and I was afraid á
that he would grumble."
Fight with my mate after a quarrel.
"I felt guilty when I thought that I was still not standing on my á
own feet."
Not applicable to myself.
"[ Never felt guilty, as I have never done anything which could á
make me feel guilty.]"
"I was to inform the neighbour on my left that a robber had been á
spotted the same evening near the house of the neighbour in front.  á
I did not do it and the same day the thieves broke into this á
neighbour's house."
"One day at school I had quarrelled with a school-mate, and á
ultimately I had hit him hard.  He, being physically weak had to á
visit his doctor and remain absent from school for two days."
Finding out that I have misunderstood other people.
"I told my pesent boyfriend that I was an Australian as are my á
parents. As the relationship developed I found it harder and á
harder to confess and became sure it would end our relationship. á
He eventually found out when told in front of me by my mother"
"I told my parents (or more realistically) would not do what they á
wanted me to do anymore. I guess I sort of betrayed them after á
all they had done for me."
"When my parents fight lots of time, when I'm the reason of the á
fight, I feel guilty."
"A friend of mine trusted me to back her in a decision she had á
made.  But when the moment came I did not agree with her opinion."
"When I unjustly accused a person of my family of something she á
didn't really do."
"When I am in an environment or with a person much worse off than á
me, I realize how privileged I am."
NO RESPONSE.
I was late meeting someone for an appointment.
"When I lied last week. I lied to someone to get info. for a á
paper I was writing. I told her that the info. was for a á
newspaper article. I was afraid if I told the truth she wouldn't á
help me."
"I was at school and afterwards went to work. After work I went to á
see a friend and stayed out late. when I got home my mother was á
awake and I felt guilty."
"I had been on friendship with a certain girl for sometime and the á
love was going on well, but it happened that I made the á
friendship come to an end suddenly without good reasons."
"Missing lectures and avoiding university work for no reason when á
it had to be done."
"In adolescence I had a very violent fight with my sister I hold á
her stong in her neck, she had a throat surgery what make me feel á
guilty about the future reactions she might had injuring the á
surgery."
"I felt guilty when I learnt that some of friends found the á
finished at the Cafeteria because I took food which was more than á
my share."
Forgetting a close friend's birthday.
Not handing in homeworks in time.
"When I was starting in romance with my husband, we went out to á
curt, and we stayed in the car ""making love"". At the time I was á
seventeen and I was very immature until a day I lost my á
virginity."
"I was caught stealing a box of matches in the supermarket and had á
to plead guilty."
"After days or weekends where I did not accomplish the amount of á
sudying that I wanted to because of more pleasant activities á
which come up."
"When I was afraid to tell my sports teacher at secondary school á
that I had not participated in the sports activities the previous á
day."
"When I had to lie to my boyfriend so that he wouldn't suspect I'd á
bought him a xmas present as expensive as I had."
"When I forgot to take out money for my mother. She asked me what á
she would do, because I had messed up her program for the á
following day."
"Accidentally dropped a friends camera flash, so that it was á
broken."
"When my parents work very hard and get tired - while I go to á
school and study instead of helping them. I feel that I'm letting á
them down, disappointing them."
"I'm allergic to most foods - eating something that I'm allergic á
to caused guilt."
"Facing the possibility of having a child when it wasn't either á
desired or permitted."
"A person misinterpreted what I had told her. I had told her that á
I had failed to insert a NasoGastric tube but she went and á
scolded the patient that she was being uncooperative."
"I had to take care of the plants of a friend of mine for several á
weeks. I watered them, but let them stand in a cold room so that á
two of them perished."
"Classes were over and I wanted to go home.  A friend of mine á
asked me to wait for half an hour to take him back home.  I said á
no.  "
"I had planned a trip to the South during Easter, together with a á
friend. She was very sorry when I changed my mind and decided not á
to go after all."
"[ Generally when I am shopping I feel like I were guilty of all á
the thefts through the year (I have never stolen).]"
"During a ski tour with a friend, we two had drunk too much. When á
we went down the slope on ski, I lost my friend who had lost his á
way. I thought that something must have happened to him (he á
finally arrived but after a very long time)."
"Guilt conscious struck me when I failed my Standard Two á
Examinations in 1972. I knew that I would suffer the consequences á
of what I had been doing during class hours: thus playing with á
friends and sometimes not even going to school."
"Describing to mother how a hole in the wall had appeared while I á
was babysitting."
"When I stared to much at a pastry that a woman was eating and at á
the same instant the pastry felt on the floor."
Shouting at my parents because I was angry about something else.
"My grandmother wanted me to help her. I was driving a tractor á
pulling a dead branch off a tree. I told her she didn't respect á
me."
I felt guilt when I betrayed the person whom I loved.
"I got angry at my mother for something trivial.  We were in a á
bad mood because my father was very ill and I knew that my mother á
really needed support.  I had reacted wrongly."
I failed to complete a working task within the agreed time.
"Stealing money from a milk token jar from a close friend of the á
family when visiting."
Beating my brother up.
Two timing - going out with 2 guys at once (secretly).
"Having an affair with my good friend's best friend. And every time á
I see my best friend I feel guilt because we can't tell him."
"Boyfriend doing cleaning in situation where it was my job to do á
it. Later snapped at him over trivial thing. He looked downcast. á
I felt guilty - ""he's just done all that work for me""."
"During class one day I walked out of the class.  The á
teacher noticed it and decided that he would take some action á
against me, when I realized this I approached him and told him á
that I was sorry for the incident and would not repeat it."
Did not read reference when other people read them.
"I lost a conference because I hadn't got in touch with a certain á
person to inform her that I would go with her. I thought she knew á
what I wanted."
"I forgot my mother's and sister's birthdays (they fall on the á
same day)."
When I betrayed my former girlfriend.
"Remembering (at the time I did not feel guilt) in recent yrs. how á
angry I would get when I was babysitting my new brother and he á
would not stop crying. I did not do anything harmful or shocking. á
But I feel guilty for treating him the way I did espec"
"Yesterday I broke my sister's raio. She hears it always when she á
has school examinations and now she has examinations."
"At my native place I was riding my cycle, which did not have á
lights, at night and so a police man caught me.  I requested him á
to let me go but he would not so after a few minutes I just á
escaped."
"When I knew that my niece did a bad schoolar examination because á
I couldn't explain her the lesson."
"When my father and I worked on the house just after he had á
recovered from illness, I was rather lazy.  This meant that he á
had to work hard and was not very well later."
"Doing something wrong at home, and then letting my (normally) á
more rampant brother take the blame."
"I work at a commercial house from 7 to 10 a.m. On a very cold day á
in winter I was late - and let a fellow worker stand in the cold á
for half an hour."
"I spent all weekend with a friend instead of studying for my á
exams."
"A few lies that I had indulged in, a few years ago, while raising á
loans from my friends."
"Once, when I arrived home very late, my parents had an argument á
because of this; my mother wanted to stand up for me."
[ Never experienced.]
When I robbed a loop in supermarket.
Forgot to turn up on prescribed day for jury service.
When I was involved in a car crash.
"Feeling helpless, not being able to accomplish what I really á
wanted to do."
"When I made a mistake at work and when questioned about it á
pretended I had nothing to do with the problem."
"No ideal result in the University entrance examn, guilty to á
family and friend."
"I borrowed a friend's books and forgot I had them, she asked for á
them back and I told her I didn't have them. I duly found and á
returned them."
Not handing in homeworks in time.
"When I slapped a nephew who did something that I considered á
wrong, and I was reprehended for this."
"When in the initial interview for the recruiting, I don't know why, á
I accepted to do the test for army."
When I stole something.
"Breaking the left hand indicator box by moving too close to á
structure."
"I went to a friend's baptism as she became a Christian after me á
and I realized that she was more enthusiastic about her spiritual á
life than I was.  When I was with my brothers and sisters of á
Christ I had a guilty feeling which could not be dismissed"
Promised to do something for other people and did not do it.
"I've always defended my sister when needed, at the expense of my á
brother. This has led to feelings of guilt towards him."
"Borrowing a car, and then having a minor accident (breaking a á
headlight)."
When I insulted an elderly person for no reason.
"I was not able to explain well to my good friend to make him less á
angry."
"A young girl tried to put an end to her life because of lover's á
grief; not until she was in hospital I heard that I had been the á
reason for her action."
While playing a ball game, I made a mistake and we lost the game.
"When my aunt took her own life, I felt guity for not á
understanding that she needed support."
"Someone asked me to do something and I made up an excuse and said á
no. I then went and didn't the same thing with someone else and á
hoped the first person never found out."
"When I deny something to my sister and after a while I feel sorry á
and try to bypass the situation."
When I and the boy next door set fire to a house by accident.
"A person I was attracted to walked me home in the rain and got á
sick."
"My cousin knocked on the door, looking for me to get her watch á
back.  I had given it to my girlfriend, Lizzy, as a present."
Sleeping through crew practice one Monday morning.
[ No response.]
"We had a day off from school. Instead of helping my mother with á
her job, I stayed in bed all day."
"The first time I went away with my boyfriend and lied about where á
we were staying."
"Arguing with my younger cousin.  She is rather a nuisance but I á
felt sorry."
"I mangled the side of my dad's van on a fence. I did not realize á
the extent of the damage until he showed it to me the next day. á
The shock on my face was genuine so a friend interceded with a á
good excuse which I did not deny. I never clarified the á"
When one lets friends down
"When I got low marks in the final year B.Sc exams, I felt guilty á
as I had not worked hard because I had been roaming around with my á
 friends."
When I copy someone else's problem set.
"I dated another boy several times, when I was still ""going with"" á
my former boyfriend. This made me feel a little bit guilty towards á
my friend."
"When my sister had the opportunity to do some modelling work. And á
I was quite jealous - later on the photographer decided not to á
take her photograph, and she was very upset - I felt guilty as a á
result, almost as if I had caused her to lose her oppor"
I forgot to lock the outside door at my Land Lady's place.
Telling white lies.
"Once while playing tennis with my classmate I lost a few tennis á
balls.  I found one near the tennis court and took it to be mine á
despite thinking that it might belong to the student in the next á
court.  I felt guilty.  Later someone came to me to cla"
"I got into a bad fight in a bar and my friend received a bad cut á
above his left eye while trying to separate us."
"I felt guilty when I mislead a person into thinking he was a á
close friend when that person was more of a casual acquaintance."
When caught shop-lifting as for shame.
"The day I decided to get out of my house I saw in my brother's á
eyes that they blamed me for the situaiton."
"I was said to be responsible for my mother getting ill and á
growing thin. I did not realize that it really was my fault until á
several weeks later."
"Two-timing - going out with person other than guy I was in á
relationship with."
"When something went wrong for me I lashed out at someone else á
whom I loved and who was not in any way responsible for what had á
happened (my sister)."
Said something I should not have said in public.
"Telling a lie to wife over phone about what I had been working á
at."
Make a mistake, offended my friend.
"When a patient had died soon after I had told the guardian to á
wait outside the ward."
"I live with my boyfriend, we have a close relationship, I fell in á
love with another man."
"Some students have been calling lecturers nicknames and I was not á
able to find out who they were to stop them."
"I had parked in a corner, and when I was going out I didn't watch á
if another car was coming and went out. The car that was coming á
was obliged to stop suddenly. It didn't crash but for a little."
"I felt very guilty when I tried to teach swimming to my younger á
brother, as I myself could not swim very well and my brother á
had started sinking to the bottom, however my elder brother á
saved him."
"When I was taking the 11th standard exam, my friend who was sitting á
behind me asked me for some answers.  The teacher looked at us á
just then and scolded both of us.  Everyone started looking at us á
and I felt very guilty."
Not getting an airplane ticket fot my mother.
When I took away my best friend's boyfriend.
"I spend the night with my boyfriend, while there was also a á
friend of his. We all lay on the floor to sleep. When my á
boyfriend was fallen asleep the other boy and I started petting. á
After 15 minutes I felt miserable and awoke my boyfriend to tell á
"
"My girlfriend's results in school had become worse because I á
prevented her from learning (we often went out etc.)."
I said nasty things which I did not mean to a friend.
"When I was 4-5 years old my mother gave me some parts of a á
chocolate bar and ordered me to bring it to my father working á
outside. On my way I could not resist the temptation and ate it á
myself."
"I felt guilty when I read an advertisement for a job as a chemist á
in the newspaper and when my friend asked me if I had applied for á
that job, I told him that I had not even seen the paper of that á
day."
"When I was a little girl about eight years old I broke the bey á
from a closed. Mother asked who did it. I said that it wasn't me, as á
I almost never lied, and my brother did it more frequently in á
spite my brother denieing it my mother gave him a few s"
"I chatted up with a girl who I didn't love. She however was á
fallen in love with me. I felt responsible for her sorrow."
"I broke off with my partner as I wanted him as a friend and not á
as a lover.  He reacted very violently and I felt guilty as I á
had made him so desperately unhappy."
"Very often I take care for my little sister and oversee her á
duties. Most of the time everything went fine, but sometimes she á
absolutely didn't want to obey; then I hit her (we frequently á
were hit by our father)."
"One day I shouted at my brother who didn't do any wrong to me á
only that I had a disappointment from a friend and projected it á
on to him. He cried and I felt guilty after sometime."
"When my boyfriend asked me to go out with him and I refused á
because I wanted to go out with another guy.  I did go out and my á
boyfriend found out."
Not being able to help my friend.
Broken a friend's cup.
"I wanted to finish a relationship after 3 months. Unfortunately á
my friend had a different opinion. I could not answer his á
feelings this made him unhappy, and me feel guilty."
"I was driving my parents' car into a carpark in front of a shop á
we own, and scraped the corner of the front panel on the back á
corner of my father's utility. I didn't tell anyone, I lied about á
the bump (later I had to confess)."
Did not pick up a water mellon skin, someone slipped on it.
"I felt guilty when I heard the results of my friend, who had á
failed.  I wished that I had helped him."
"When my ex-husband left our house, and the children cried because á
he was not coming back."
"It happened when I still went to school: I got closer to a girl á
but I considered it only as an ""affair"". Only much later I realized á
how painful this must have been for the girl."
"When my father (physically handicapped) asks me to do something á
and I raise several objections. Often I can fix it in few á
moments."
"I broke a cup and put it back without telling anyone about it and á
someone almost got blamed for it, then it was discovered that it á
was me who had broken it."
"A friend of mine said in a group that she felt lonely and á
withdrawn from everyone because of mental deficiency."
I felt guilty when I couldn't help a person.
"My mother accused me of not visiting her enough when she was in á
hospital for an eye operation."
Thinking about other things in a lecture.
I experience feelings of guilt because I do not study enough.
Having been angry and unpleasant towards my parents.
"I felt guilty the other day because I took two pieces of bread á
instead of one in the Cafeteria and some of the girls were short á
of bread."
"When the student union leaders were expelled from the university á
and we continued to study."
I did not reply to my friend's letter in time. 
"My parents appreciate very much me and my boyfriend coming and á
have dinner with them at Christmas. However we decided to visit á
his parents. My mother was rather disappointed."
When I answered to my mother with rudeness.
"One night I did not come home without telling my parents and I á
did not want to speak about it afterwards. My mother cried. I had á
a bad conscience and felt guilty."
Squeezed the puppy in the door.
"When I told a person something that had happened to my friend, á
and this person went and told my friend."
"When I made love with a girl, which I don't really love. However á
I know that she loves me."
"I was spending a few days at my aunt's place.  One night I got á
home very late, I had told them I was going to a party but I went á
to another place.  They were very worried."
"I allowed my little brother to clean the bathroom in his own way. á
My mother came and saw the floor overflowed with water, slapped á
my brother in the face and told him to go to bed immediately."
"After a courtship of three months I made an end to it. The boy á
was very sad about this."
When I beat up a stupid boy who was fond of cracking jokes on me.
"When my Bictorian ""friend"" was staying at my house we ere going á
places together, and sleeping together. At the time I had a á
boyfriend locally. The first time I had to face him after á
sleeping with the guy from Melbourne I felt very guilty."
[ No response.]
I did not do my homework and went to see a film.
"When I had sufficient amount of money, I brought more clothes for á
myself than for the children - I  felt bad about it."
"During the military service, I lost a part of an equipment; I á
accused another person and he was rebuked and punished."
"[ I can positively say that I have never done anything that made á
me feel guilty.]"
"When I decided my first marriage had ended, and left with the á
child. I felt overwhelmed by guilt as I was separating mother and á
child."
"When a mistake occurred at work which I was not responsible for.  á
This was disclosed later."
"When I see that my mother forces my little brother (15 years) to á
work very hard for school. I don't agree that she constantly puts á
him to work, but I don't tell it to her, so nothing changes."
"When I felt I had let my parents down, especially my mother, by á
having sexual intercourse for the first time, and a few times á
after that. Also, when I went on the Pill."
Mentioning a book to the person who borrowed it.
"I had not done my assignment seriously.  I only pretended to á
finish the work as the work did not have any meaning for me.  The á
whole thing made me feel guilty."
"I felt guilty because I stole some sweets from my father's á
grocery. When he asked me who stole the sweets I told him it was á
my brother who stole the sweets and he was scolded."
"When I did not concentrate on my studies despite my mother's help á
and cooperation."
"I behaved in a nasty manner towards a friend, I said things which á
I could have said in a more friendly way. After that I felt á
guilty."
"I once drank too much alcohol and became very ill. This was in the á
presence of my friends."
"I once stole a shirt from the Department Store in which I work. I á
have been promoted to work in a very privileged section of the á
store. Their belief in my integrity makes me feel even guiltier."
"When I flew out to my mother and made rude remarks because I felt á
so tense (studied too hard for an examination)."
[ Can not think of anything.]
"When I realised that I had rejected a boy, who was fallen in love á
with me, rather bluntly four times."
"Two days after the above incident, I was thinking about my á
morally shameful act and I felt sorry for that incident, but it á
was too late, however I did realize this."
"Too busy to write letters to friends and they said I had á
forgotten about them."
"Inventing a fictitious series of events, as a result of which I á
ended up in a conflict with my two closest friends."
"A friend wanted to give me a surprise into my room and I thought á
she was stealing from the room."
"After a quarrel with my mother in which matters were ""inflated"" á
enormously."
"My friend did not do well in the examn because I did not help á
him."
"When my nephew asked me to tell him a story and I simply did not á
have the energy or the will.  When I saw his disappointment I was á
terribly guilty and read a story to him after all."
Telling my parents that I did not get into a good university.
"My girlfriend and I agreed to go to the cinema. However I á
completely forgot our appointment. I remembered it two hours á
too late when I went to visit her."
"Some time ago I took the driving test. I did answer the á
theoretical questions very well, but I failed the practical á
driving test. It was my fault because I had not enough practice."
"I am not good enough to join any team to play sport for the á
class."
"When I insulted my young sister for a very little misconduct of á
putting on my shoes. She wrote me an apology letter and the á
message she included made me feel guilty."
"When I forced a close friend of mine to ask a girl things about á
herself."
"I was living at home during the Summer vacations and towards the á
end decided to take some of my clothes and other belongings to á
the appartment in Guttenburg.  When I had finished I went to my á
ex-boyfriend's (relationship uncertain) home and stayed t"
"When I tell someone no. In other words when I refuse to do á
something although I could have helped him."
"Due to a misunderstanding on my part, two of my best friends á
quarelled."
[ When excuses are necessary and I get out of doing it myself.]
NO RESPONSE.
"Whenever I see poverty and starvation. I live in an affluent á
society and am privileged to have many opportunities."
"Heard that my girl-friend was chosen for the English lectures and á
I was not. I lost my temper and she is very upset now."
"My mother wants to talk very often about her life. I dislike this á
because she always talks negatively about the same people á
whatever I do it doesn't help."
"About the girl (22 years, married) I felt guilty of the á
relationship."
"I came home from a discotheque at half past four in the morning, á
although I had promised my parents to come home at midnight. From á
3 a.m. I felt guilty towards my parents."
"My mom told me not to gamble, but I did anyway. Sometimes I would á
even take some money from my parents and brother. She found out á
and yelled at me."
"My baby sister was 2-3 months old and when I was trying to get á
her on my back, she slipped and fell."
Failed to do what I had promised.
"Due to laziness, I failed the term studies completely at á
University.  I also wanted, to some extent, to protest against my á
parents' expectations."
"I had made an appointment with a girl to go to the movies, but á
actually I had no mind when we arrived at the cinema, it was a á
full house. I then went back and she went to the movie alone."
"The fridge we had at home had a lock.  One day when I wanted á
something, I unscrewed the door but unfortunately I was caught in á
the act."
When my father had a serious fight with my sister, because of me.
"I felt guilty when I once went out with another boy and made love á
with him while I had a close boyfriend."
Not helping other people to do their homework.
"I was to prepare relish for the family. I overcooked it and no á
one liked the meal that day."
I called off a relationship with one girl so I could see another.
Not collecting letters for my friend al I promised.
"That I didn't want my friend to leave on holiday for 10 days á
because I thought I would miss him. I was constantly trying to á
persuade him."
"I moved to Nijmegen for my study. Soon after this my mother had á
to be admitted in hospital because of cardiac compliants. I knew á
that my moving was an important reason for this."
"When my husband discovered I was having an affair with another á
man."
"A kitten had wandered into our office, and I was told to take it á
back across the street. When I crossed back, the kitten followed á
me and was run over and killed by a car."
"I took my father's car to church one Sunday (I told them that's á
where I was going ) I decided instead to go for a drive to the á
beach - on the way I got a puncture."
"I broke the gutar of a colleague but as it happened in a moment á
when nobody was present I could escape from the guilt."
When I did not go to work because I had to study for a midterm.
"I let my pet budgie loose to fly around my room one afternoon. A á
few hours afterwards I found he was still free, went in and out á
of my room leaving the door open. My cat got in and killed my á
budgie - this happened to 3 budgies."
"My brother and I were at home watching a TV program when I á
started to tease  him and in this joke I hurt him without á
knowing the seriousness of it I went on. He got angry and gave it á
back to me. At this moment I felt anger at him but knowing that á
"
"Adolescent guilt growing up feeling ""bad, immoral"" sexual á
desires, some 10yrs ago."
I failed to show up at an agreed date.
I kicked the chair in the classroom to express my anger.
"I went shopping with my mother and sister (17 years old). Mother á
always told my sister what she should buy. Instead of assisting á
my sister in defending herself against mother's interference, I á
just behaved aggressively towards my sister."
"About not helping my sister when she asked me to help her on her á
chemistry class. I pretended to be busy."
Wrongly accused a classmate.
"Attending to a demand made by a client (I work in a bank) I á
suggested her an application of money in a week ahead, but I á
informed her wrongly. The client arrived a week after and the á
application wasn't made and she lost with this a lot of time and á"
"A friend of mine shot himself through the head after having told á
me and others that he would do so."
"In a playground I was playing at the seesaw with a little niece. á
I wanted to stop but nobody came to help me. When I got off, all á
alone the seesaw fell down with a big smash. My niece got hurt á
above her eye. Now there is a scar."
"A friend of mine had the sleeves of a leather coat stolen from á
his car.  It was me who had left them there for everyone to see."
"I used to have two boyfriends in the past. Then one of them á
wanted to get engaged to me. I agreed but was guilt-conscious for á
disappointing the other one."
When I was a kid I stole toys from other kids.
When quarreling with friends.
"The night of a high school dance, I went partying and collided á
with another car. Both cars were totalled; people were injured á
but not seriously."
"In neglecting some work that had to be done around the house and á
telling my roommate I would get it done."
[ No response.]
A friend came to visit me and I was not there.
I felt guilty when I "stole" the boyfriend of a friend of mine.
Forgot to collect post for a friend.
"When I finished a test type of exam and did not dare to answer á
any question, I doubted whether I would pass the exam  or not."
"I borrowed my classmate's notebook one week before the á
examination and I promised to give it back to her in two days á
time.  I was very busy at that time and forgot many things; as I á
was not very often at home she could not contact me.  When I á
star"
"I hit my little sisiter on the head with a stone while we were á
fighting."
Peeping.
"I had to call somebody between 12 and 12:30. As I had no á
possibility to call him at this time, I did not do it until 3 á
p.m."
"When my ex-boyfriend didn't want to sleep with me anymore and I á
insisted. We made love but he felt very badly and I felt guilty."
A boy who shot dead a squirrel.
"After closing the front door I realized that I had left the key á
inside the house. I felt even more guilty since it was not my own á
house but the house of people I hardly knew."
"I was out with a friend in a place where it was very, very busy. á
When we wanted to go I bumped a person, who dropped his glass á
beer I offered a new one but he didn't accept it."
"I felt guilty when I had refused to lend money to my friend who á
needed it immediately."
Telling friends about your nickname.
"When some housemen told me a young girl like you should not be á
allowed to lecture to consultants, I was too shy to argue against á
them."
"When my niece was 3 years old she was in the living room while we á
were fixing the table for a birthday party and, as every child, á
she couldn't stay calm. She burst a balloon. When I told her to á
be quiet her father pinched her. I believe if I hadn't "
"My mother always took my side. That brought about quarrels with á
my father. I knew she didn't like that and I felt very sorry for á
that."
"Calling lecturers nicknames when talking to housemen (They told á
ne you are even younger than they are so you should not be giving á
public lectures)."
Not being able to help my friend to study English.
Hurt someone's feelings unintentionally.
"I had a girlfriend which I used to call regularly. Then I didn't á
phone her for a while. At a certain moment I felt a little á
tension which became worse."
"Getting a D in a class last semester and knowing it was because I á
didn't study."
"When I didn't pass the examinations for FUVEST I felt myself á
guilty for I should have studied. I had the opportunities, and á
I drew them out."
"I bumped my dad's car in a lamp post.  He was not at home then, á
neither was he home when I left for the campus.  I did not tell á
him about the accident and I will never tell him."
"When I was young I felt guilty because I thought that I had á
commited a grave sin."
"After a terrible quarrel with my family, I withdrew in my room. I á
felt guilty because I had caused this scene by my aggressive á
behavior."
"I thought that I could have avoided the above situation (the one á
in fear) if I had concentrated more on my work, which I hate."
"When I took a car which was not mine, and suddenly it stopped á
working."
"I experience a sense of guilt as my middle son cannot express á
himself like other children, neither verbally nor in writing."
"When I met another person I began to go out with him, and my á
boyfriend (with marriage accorded) met us together he did a great á
scandal, he broke the engagement and I began to go out with the á
other, and it didn't work because my mind was all mixed up"
"I borrowed my friend's radio cassette and the plug cracked and á
some pieces broke off when the plug dropped off my hands."
"After moving out of my apt. I took all the furniture and dishes á
and everything. It was mine but I took it all just to spite my á
roomies. We had a few (a lot) of disagreements. I felt guilt for á
moving out for the bad reasons."
I am not good enough for your experiment I am doing.
"Having failed to help with the 5th of March arrangements (Women's á
Day), although I had previously promised to take part in the á
work."
"I ran over my dog with a bicycle when I was carrying him tied to á
the handle bar."
When I shout at a colleague in classroom.
"When I wished secretly and lied to a friend of mine because I á
didn't want her to stay in my house on the beach (as she always á
does), and wouldn't stick on me."
"Car accident. I let a 16-year old, incompetent parson take the á
wheel and I feel very guilty about what happened even though I á
suffered the worst injuries."
I offended my mother.
When I promised a male friend of mine to visit him, and did not.
"The death of my father made me feel quite guilty, because my á
attitude towards him had been cold and indifferent."
"Not being able to spend more time with a friend who was visiting á
me."
A parking fine.
"We had promised, with a friend of mine, to take our friends to a á
restaurant and after having looked for a place for hours without á
finding one, and not being helped by the others we had to give up á
the idea."
When I could not complete my assignment on time.
"After confronting the person who stood me up, I blew up and said á
all the wrong things."
"I didn't give back in time some money that I had borrowed. My á
friend relied on them."
"I got back too late after a Sunday going out without having á
called up home to tell where I was. my mother hadn't slept the á
whole night."
"Decided at the last minute not to do something that I said I á
would do with a person."
Not acting on my promise.
"At my summer job, I was responsible for making various orders.  á
It was not me who had ordered some seasonal merchandise, but when á
much of it was left over and had to be thrown away in the Autumn, á
I felt partly responsible for the much too large orde"
"My mother developed hipertonia and I think I too am to blame á
bacause with her it is a stress disease."
"After yelling at my girlfriend, I felt bad because she was ? á
crying and upset."
I lost my self-control and raised my voice at a child.
"Some time ago I slapped my son without trying to understand who á
the real culprit of a damage was. After that I felt guilty and á
bad but it was too late."
I felt guilty when once I made my mother angry.
"Once I was not able to give a relative, who was in a critical á
period, a helping hand.  Whenever I think about it I feel guilty  á
for letting down the person who trusted me to give him a helping á
hand."
"It was my turn to cook dinner.  I forgot a dish (the favourite of á
the family) in the oven and it got burnt and was uneatable."
"I met my ex boyfriend by chance.  We separated a few months ago á
and I am now with a new boyfriend.  My ex boyfriend looked á
depressed, and I know I am not to be blamed."
One of my pupils escaped from school to the street.
I am not doing what I should with this questionnaire.
"When I do not put in the needed amount of hours of work or study á
for the day, I feel guilty and try to make up for the lost á
time."
I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
"A friend of mine was drunk and having an argument on the street á
with a woman, appparently his girlfriend.  I was walking on the á
other side of the street and thought that I was not supposed to á
interfere.  Later I heard that he had shot himself that e"
Could not help a student who needs help.
"I offended a person who had done much for me and who had helped á
me for everything."
"When I shouted and quarrelled and for no reason I had been rude to my á
mother and when my behaviour had been influenced by other outward á
factors."
"When my uncle found me having sexual intercourse with a distant á
relative of mine in the sitting room, on the couch.  I failed to á
stop and get up, I carried on."
Promising to do a task for a friend and just forgetting about it.
I ignored and offended my parents on the eve of the New Year.
Years ago I ran away from home which disappointed my parents.
"[ I felt guilt when I was not co-operative with my mother for my á
exam.]"
"A borrowed car broke down while I was using it.  It was not my á
fault, nevertheless I felt guilty."
"At secondary school, one of my classmates lost her locker key.  á
During a class I saw two other classmates holding a key and á
talking secretly.  I do not know why I suspected them, also á
another classmate supported me.  He remembers that these people á"
"I feel this feeling most often before me not before the others. á
My outside is iron but actually I'm wasting away."
"I had enough time to do my assignment, and I did not do it well.  á
When the lecturer scolded me, I had this feeling."
Insulting other people.
Adultery with a friend's girlfriend.
"When I was in the fifth class the rating was done in our á
mark-books. I hadn't been examined yet but I had heard from my á
classmates about the scolding they had got at home. My first á
mark was in geography - good 4. I judged I had known for more á
than"
"My grandmother has been in a hospital for a week and I still á
haven't had time to see her."
[ Whenever I do something prohibited or wrong I feel guilty.]
"It was my mother's birthday. My father and I used to buy a á
present together. However, now I had bought something together á
with my girlfriend and I forgot to ask my father."
"Being miserable in a party when other people are friendly and á
happy."
"I felt guilty last year during the winter term exams. A colleague á
of mine asked me to give him my lecture notes (I had very good á
notes and I had passed my exam in advance) but I still don't know á
why I didn't give them to him. That colleague failed a"
"When I did not defend my close friend when my father degraded á
him. I felt guilty for allowing my father to get away with his á
actions and for the hurt my friend felt. I cleared the matter up á
with my father a few weeks later."
"When I think about my family (parents, brothers, sisters) guilt á
is a part of my feelings."
"When I lied to my mum, who later came to know that what I had á
been teling her was false."
"When my aunt went out of her way to help me out with my financial á
problems."
"I got 100 FIM too much when I changed money at the bank.  They á
soon called me at my job and the situation was embarrasing for á
me."
When I hurt my parents in one way or another.
"The cat of my landlady escaped through the window which I had á
left open."
"I destroyed my step-brother's bedsheets by mistake, they were the á
only ones he had."
"When my grandfather was in a nursing home when I was young I never á
wanted to go and sometimes didn't have to and later I felt á
guilty."
"I felt guilty after getting really angry with a friend and having á
an argument. I was being stubborn and proud, and selfish, because á
my friend let me down, through no fault of her own."
"I had undertaken to help my sister for her class work but some á
unexpected circumstances prevented me from doing that."
I did not go to the exercises, without any adequate reason.
"I was the reason behind the break-up of my friend's relationship á
with his girlfriend.  She finished with him."
Falling in love with a close friend.
I felt guilty after I battered to death a classmate of mine.
"I was caught doing something bad and I bribed the person who á
caught me.  Later I felt very bad, maybe I should have paid for á
my bad behaviour."
"I didn't keep a promise I had made to a man, and in this way I á
lost his esteem and confidence in me. I caused him a lot of á
trouble."
"I was working as a secretary.  My boss was to go to give a á
lecture, and wanted me to give him the exact address of the á
place."
Forgot to give a present to my little nephew.
"I felt guilt because on account of my ambitions I nearly turned á
my sister out of my parents home."
While travelling in a bus with an invalid ticket, I got caught.
"Recently when I made a slip and blurted out indecent words in my á
mother's presence."
[ The day I have not worked (academic) hard enough.]
"[ I had, by being silent, disapproved my love and made him á
unhappy.  He had not been able to keep his promise.  I thus was á
thinking about my own conduct towards another person.]"
"I wanted to get rid of a bad habit and it seemed that I had á
succeeded.  However a year later I got the bad habit again.  I felt  á
useless as I always found excuses to explain my behaviour.  As a result I á
felt guilty."
"I came across a blind man sitting in one of the corridors and á
asking for money, though I had some money I did not give him á
anything."
"While at primary school, I did not let a friend ring a bell á
although he would have liked to do it.  Afterwards I felt bad."
"I had an appointment with a colleague of mine to give her my á
lecture notes. I couldn't go and I didn't send them, and so the á
girl missed a day for the preparation of her term exams."
"My brother wanted money but I refused to give it to him, two days á
later he stole it from my father."
"When I was young - 14, I pinched from a store and was caught.  á
The store then contacted my parents."
"The assistant professor saw me cheat at the preliminary á
examination."
I stroke a person undeservedly.
"I've had three midterms in the past two weeks and I hardly á
studied for any of them (like 1 or 2 days) I feel guilty that I á
hadn't studied and I got C's on all of them."
Not accepting hints of intimate relation from a girl.
"When my father's car got stolen from me. (A 1966 Ford Mustang - á
very hard to replace)."
"When as a child I stole, from a friend of mine, the ring she had á
got in an easter egg."
When I don't justify the confidence of people that I respect.
"Not beeing able to stay with my mother for the National Day á
holiday."
When my mother scolded me and I argued with her.
"One day I went to see a movie without my parents permission.  It á
was an adult movie and I was scared that my parents would not á
allow me to see the movie.  However after coming home I felt very á
guilty at what I had done."
"When I complained about a colleague to the manager and he told á
her that someone had complained; this colleague came to me á
believing that I liked her."
Always, and this happens often when I do not keep my word.
"I had to leave an important function early because of family á
commitments. Someone else had to complete my job."
"When I was young I stole something from a shop and got caught, á
then I was taken to the police station and my parents had to come á
and get me."
"[ If one has planned to do something ""important"" and then, for á
some reason, fails to do it.]"
"When before the last exam I have taken, I went out instead of á
studying."
I felt guilty when I lied to my parents.
When I beat up my son for having beaten up his sister.
When I offend somebody unfairly.
Losing my temper to my sister.
"I removed an article of clothing belonging to my employer while á
in a position of trust."
"I did not go to help a friend of mine, though she probably needed á
me."
"At a moment of affect I offended a person very close to me. He á
had given me ground for that but it was a trifling in comparison á
with the way I insulted him. A moment later I felt a sense of á
guilt."
"While having an argument with my daughter, I got angry and á
over-excited and said angry words."
The day I came home drunk after having attended a disco party.
" In some special circumstances l lied to my parents, then felt á
guilty so I told them the truth and felt free."
It happens to me quite often. I can't describe a particular case.
Did not do what I promised to do for a friend.
Low evaluation of other people's cares.
"When I noticed that my little sister was sulking, because I could á
not meet her because of a misunderstanding."
"When I did not succeed in finding a job after having finished a á
nonacademic degree."
Once I lied to my parents and this made me feel very guilty.
Lack of respect for my parents.
"Quite unconsciously I offended a girlfriend of mine. It was á
really worthy to pass this fact over in silence, but I acted so, á
because I believed I was right. In fact it often happens to me to á
feel guilt, after I have already done the deed."
"I hated you for not letting me go and found out that it was not á
your decision."
"Reported neighbour to police for taking to my daughter with á
baseball ball - her counsellor rang me and after long talk á
convinced me the woman was o.k. I felt guilty for ringing the á
police then guilty for feeling guilty about it."
"A lonely, neurotic, shy girl lives nearby. She has expressed a á
wish to meet me, I have however avoided her (turned down an á
invitation) as the crisis my partner is going through uses up all á
my empathy."
I forgot to convey an important announcement.
When I fought with my friends.
"When I have forgotten to warn somebody for something, or when I á
have forgotten to bring something I have been asked for."
"While trying to get my little brother over a ditch, he fell on á
his head and started crying.  I was scared of having caused him á
permanent injury."
"Not being able to convince my class leader that my friend is á
better than me to go to the English lectures."
"When something unpleasant happens to a friend or relative of á
yours and you are at the bottom of it."
"When I went to my room-mate's drawer to see if she had an iron  á
which I could use, she came in.  I felt guilty as she may have á
thought that I had been stealing."
"For example, when I have promised something but I haven't á
fulfilled it."
When I offended my parents without wanting it.
"I went to the cinema with my friends, without telling my mother á
about it as I had been to the cinema the day before also.  When á
she asked me where I had been, I lied."
[ No response.]
When I have been overhastingly offending or hurting.
I didn't attend lectures.
I hapened to overhear something which I was not meant to hear.
"When I think that I have been too stict or narrow minded towards á
my students."
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
"I had gone to see one of our professors about a book, and I did not á
 attend the class she took a few minutes later.á
"
Some days ago I had a slight car accident through my fault.
"I promised my friends that I would take care of something, but I á
kept forgetting about it.  When they asked me about it, I á
promised to do it immediately.  However, I got started only after á
a couple of months.  I felt that I had betrayed my friends."
"I could not take care of my mother when she was admitted to a hospital  á
for surgery, I continued my studies as I could not get leave."
Not doing well in the examn.
I do not help out enough at home.
"When I was caught sneaking back into the house at night after á
having  gone to a disco without permission."
"When I am not able to fulfill any request of my son - can't take á
him out to ride his byke, because I am tired."
"I feel guilty when I should have done something at any rate but I á
haven't done it."
"When my friend failed an exam by just one mark.  During this exam á
she had asked me to show her my answer sheet and I had not done á
it.  When the results came out, I thought that had I shown her my á
answer sheet she would have passed the exam.  I felt "
"I ""picked up"" a girl and I thought that I had misused my á
position and authority over her as there did not seem to be any á
realistic possibility of continuing the relationship."
"My mother told me that the enveloppes that I had been tearing (I á
had torn the stamps away) in good faith had been the first-day á
enveloppes which my father had collected as a young man."
"When I took a small boy's share of choclale.  He was our guest á
and so had been given a larger share of the sweets."
"I felt it when I came home after the examination session and I á
said I had not passed my last exam."
When I moved away from home.
"When I behaved improperly - fought in a public place.  á
Afterwards, I felt guilty about my conduct."
Not being able to help my friend to do homework.
"When I had had the possibility to act or to do certain activity á
better but I had not done it because of reluctance or á
carelessness."
A friend asked for help and I was not able to help.
"When I could neither measure up to the expectations of the teacher á
nor to my own expectations in one of the assignments."
"I used to pinch change from my father's mantlepiece (never my á
mother - she didn't get enough housekeeping) and then I'd feel á
when we went to church as a family I'd felt awkward cos I felt á
I'm expected to go to communion and I would but I was afraid "
Being rude to someone I do not like.
When I don't fulfill my obligations.
"My father got a slight heart attack after a telephone call of á
mine."
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
"When I was baby-sitting at my cousin's place, I tried to have a á
pleasant time and did not really take care of the child.  I do á
not care very much about children."
"I had been guilty of gossiping and blaming others, and one of my á
superiors at the workplace made a formal reprimand."
"In a fit of temper I told things that were unjust and they á
greatly hurt my mother though she didn't show it."
"My roommate got married and invited me to share a flat with them. á
But with a young couple there should not be a third person. I am á
to blame for not following the advise of the others, but it is á
not late still."
Not handing in homework in time.
"One night during dinner my nephew was naughty, so I quarrelled with my  á
parents.   I regreted this as my nephew was only two years old and I  á
had to tolerate him !  The quarrel made my father think that his children  á
may not take care of him in the "
"My son drank four pills of diazepam every two hours instead of á
amidophen."
When I was caught stealing mangoes in a certain compound.
Passing by a good friend's home without coming in to visit him.
"My mother misunderstood me and prevented me from doing something. á
 In return I did not talk to her for a few days, only later on I á
realized that what she had done had been for my good."
"One of my friends came to know through some other friends that I   á
had applied for some course in an institute.  He asked me ""why á
did not you tell me, I would also have applied.""  At that I felt á
guilty."
"I escaped from communicating with God for a long time.  I did not á
read the scriptures and I did not pray.  I felt that I was á
getting further and further away from God.  I felt guilty as this á
was because of my laziness."
"When I had to go to reconciliation before converting to á
Catholicism but then once received - o.k."
I forgot about a close relatives's birthday.
The same event described under "shame".
"Not helping parents enough at home and at the farm - this has á
happened many times."
"During 7th grade our class mobbed a famale teacher so badly that á
she had a breackdown and was hospitalized."
This I experienced when going around with more than one girl.
"When I provoked a fight with my mother, hurting her feelings very á
much."
"I stopped my car in front of a pedestrian crossing as a child was á
crossing the street.  The car driving in the next lane did not á
stop and the child got hurt.  Had I not stopped ..."
"When I realized that I was not working hard enough and was not á
being useful as an individual to the society or the family, guilt á
at spending money on uncalled for activities - in short wasting á
my life."
"Getting a friend an open container ticket because I got caught á
speeding."
"When I had to lie about my age to be accepted as a member of a á
group."
"The only guilt I considered reasonable was my reproval at the end á
of the semester at the University."
Being aggressive against members of my family.
"I lied to my mother in the sixth form she said she would ring to á
find out and I had to tell her I had lied."
"The greatest guilt I felt and I didn't know if it was really á
justified is that when I was a child I had a brother very close á
to me. He  became ill, and asked me to see  him in the hospital. á
I didn't go, when his situation became worse in the U.I.T. "
Not finishing homework in time.
"When I ""passed out"" a female friend of mine for no apparent á
reason.  I was under the influence of drugs and when I am like á
that I get mad at anyone, however small the provocation."
When I accepted a lunch invitation from a past male friend.
"When my mother returned from a holiday, I told her a lie i.e my á
father had brought another woman home while she was away."
I angered a close friend and he was injured.
Selling the appartment after my divorce.
"It happens sometimes in connection with certain persons with whom á
I have frequent relationships but nothing special."
"When I made an excuse to get out of participating in an important á
family occasion that I should not have missed."
"I had not written to, or called my grandmother, who was lonely, á
for a long time.  My mother asked me to call her on her behalf á
and when I did so, my grandmother was delighted and she told me á
that she had been waiting for some news from us."
When I did not give back a text book to a friend in time.
"One day my mother forced me to eat more and I refused, the next á
day she served me more rice and mutton pieces than usual.  When I á
saw this I got very angry and scolded her, and refused to eat.  á
Later I felt guilty and asked her to excuse me."
"I am the secretary of an association, and during the last meeting á
I forgot to take the minutes."
Having told a certain lie.
The same as in "shame".
"This feeling comes frequently when I go out at night and tell my á
mother that I shall come back early. But then I get home a 5 or 6 a.m."
"This feeling of guilt really applies to moral/religious views. I á
(being Catholic) went against what I was brought up to believe in á
and had a sexual relationship with my boyfriend. Many months á
later, when I was doing some deeper self analysis I began"
"I dreamed that this girl and I were cuddling in bed when my á
girlfriend walked in. I really love my girlfriend so I felt á
guilty and sad. I know that this is a wierd example but the dream á
and the feeling was clear to me as if it had really happened."
Made a mistake at work.
"My mother wrote me and said that I would not writ enough letters á
home."
"I did not attend a social studies observation class for 1 whole á
week (I am a student trainee teacher). Anyway the other teachers á
thought this was okay because the teacher I was supposed to á
observe was not well liked. The teacher was in fact really n"
When I realized that I had three more examinations to take.
Slept with someone close to my girlfriend and myself.
"Lately I've felt guilty because I'm folling behind in my classes á
and not studying much."
"One evening I went out with some friends of mine, although I was á
supposed to stay at home with my little sister who is 11."
"I had promised to send something to a friend and it completely á
slipped my mind.  I felt guilty for having forgotten."
"The negative feelings towards me displayed by my á
""parents-in-law""."
[ No response.]
"Making a sexual pass at my cousin with whom I have a very close á
personal relationship."
"I told someone that I still had a relationship with a boy á
although it was finished already 3 months before. That person á
seriously discussed several things relating that issue. Then I á
felt very miserable because I had told lies."
Yelled at my parents for not buying me a car like other parents.
Gave the wrong meal tickets to other people (my classmate).
"I felt guilty when I was robbed of a friend's radio at Lilongwe á
bus depot after promising that I would keep it safe."
"When I am dishonest to a friend to whom I am very close.  I á
feel guilty because I know that he gives a different version of á
the truth and I have not corrected these mistakes, and he is á
aware that I know that they are wrong."
"Not keeping a promise of delivering materials of great importance á
to the receiver."
"When I lied at home.   I told them that I was going to a á
Christian meeting and I went to see my boyfriend instead."
"One day my boyfriend put my hand on his penis and I felt well, á
but after I felt a guilty conscience because I hadn't thought á
about the consequences that this could have brought if I had gone á
farther."
"When I deliberately engineered a situation to cause tension á
between friends so as to bolster the impression one of them had á
of me !"
"While doing some calculation exercises, I neglected a part of it, á
though I had marked it as done.  By chance, I was asked to á
demonstrate this very part on the blackboard."
"Going out with another girl besides my girlfriend and not telling á
her."
"A few days back a friend of mine had asked me to call on him on á
Sunday.  I had accepted it but later did not go for no specific   á
reason.  I just slept in my room.  The next day this friend called  á
me up and told me that he had been expecting me the"
Not noticing my roommates quietness or a sign of discomfort.
"When my little brother asked me to play with him, I told him that á
I had no time and that I would play with him the next day. á
However, the next day I said the same thing."
"A great friend of mine travelled with the intention to change his á
life. He didn't succeed and returned depressed. I had not power á
to support his frustration and his behavioral change."
When I masturbated in my room.
I crashed my father's car.
"At times I have been attracted to conducts which are socially á
degraded due to their ill consequences, and then I feel guilty."
"When I betrayed my lover, she told me something in confidence, I á
felt at the time I had to relay the information back to the á
person concerned, as I felt the situation volitile, did this á
without telling my lover, she felt like piggy in the middle, as"
"My daughter was a baby and was crying to be taken on my lap. I á
felt very nervous and moved her away and went out. As soon as the á
feeling of nervousness passed I was taken by an enormous feeling á
of guilt, for having rejected my daughter."
"I was talking to my mom on the phone and she told me that she had á
just gotten an award that day in front of all these people and á
she asked me if I wanted her to send me the article in the temple á
newsletter to me. I said no very quickly and felt guil"
"I was not able to help my sister to understand that her husband á
is a bad man before she was married to him."
"Had started a relationship and did nothing to keep it up, partly á
the use of another person."
"I felt that I contributed to a possible rift in the relationship á
between a boy and girl soon to be married, in my flat after I á
moved in. After stating my celibacy to him which she overheard á
and didn't previously know about I suspect."
"I always feel guilty when I see my mother sad or fed up with á
life. I really dont know the reason."
"When I arrived home late at night.  I know that my mother gets á
worried and this made me feel angry."
"When I fought with my sister and said that she had provoked this. á
She was very seriously scolded."
"Criticizing my mother when she refused to drive with the radio on. á
I told her that I thought she wasn't intelligent enough to cope á
with the radio."
"Some boys told me your nickname is ""Little Girl Doctor"", I did á
not tell them off and laughed with them."
[ No response.]
"While intoxicated I damaged my sister's car in a minor way and á
someone elses in a minor way."
"When I gave in to what my wife wanted and locked the cat out, it á
was killed by the dogs."
"My sister forgot to bring presents for my birthday, I was rude to á
her."
"I often feel guilty, and it has to do with other people, e.g. if á
I haven't visited my older relatives for a while."
When I was caught with my girlfriend in the house at night.
"I reproached my mother's cooking and criticised her á
personality, and she felt hurt and depressed."
"Did not get up early enough to watch my class football team á
playing against another team."
"When once my mother asked me to do some work for her at home á
because she was busy and moreover this work was to be done by a á
man. But it remained undone."
"When an event took place in another's life and which I thought I á
could have avoided."
"A friend was going to come stay the weekend with me, but á
something came up and I cancelled out on him."
I had promised to call a girl but I did not do it.
"A friend asked to borrow my notes and I did not give them away á
(my notes too badly written)"
"I felt guilty when I failed to take an exam though I had had á
enough time to read for it but I hadn't made use of it."
"I felt guilty because of the pain I caused to a very close á
friend. But over the feeling of guilt, my conviction of being á
right dominated."
"I was pregnant and thought that by not having the baby I would á
hurt the father like he did me regardless of the life we had á
created."
"When they found out that I was absent from school, I had gone to á
the girl's secondary school."
"At my job, I got disproportionately angry with a child.  My á
reaction was not as it should have been."
When I spanked a child in anger and later regretted it terribly.
"I felt guilty when I had taken the car keys and I had an accident á
but as my parents did not know who was to blame, they punished my á
brother because I had no driving licence and they thought it á
impossible that had driven the car."
"I had found out that I was pregnant. I talked it over with my á
boyfriend and he was unsupportive - yet encouraged an abortion - á
I did."
"I promised to fulfill an errand. Later I understood it was á
impracticable. The explanation I gave was accompanied by a sense á
of guilt."
[ The same as in shame.]
Did not return the library book on time.
"Last year I put off an exam for the autumn session without á
knowing if there was a supplementary examination session. When I á
came home with my exam unpassed I felt guilty before my parents á
when I remembered how much they had done for me."
"I added a little   ?   to a yield in an experiment to get more of á
a yield."
"Some boys talking about nicknames of the lecturers, and I was too á
afraid of them to stop them."
"Eating the last remains of dinner that someone else (unknown to á
me) had claimed."
"I was involved in a ... attempt on a man I had developed a close á
warming relationship with. Although I knew I had done everything á
I could and that his progress of a ""normal"" life was poor I felt á
guilty as if I could have done more."
"I had asked the Salvation Army to take away a piece of furniture á
of mine, but I forgot to cancel the agreement (a friend of mine á
took it) and I thereby caused the Salvation Army people some á
unnecessary work."
"The sense of guilt came over me too, when I interrupted my á
studies. Why ? Because I felt guilty before my parents ! They á
believed in me though this event did not make them disbelieve me."
"I couldn't fulfill a request of a girlfriend of mine, though I á
categorically promised her and I believed there wouldn't be any á
hindrance. It was partly for objective reasons but also because á
I couldn't organize myself."
Not being a good host for a friend from a far away place.
"[ I speak harshly to my parents though they only mean my own á
good.]"
"I had thrown with the ashtray a still lighted cigarette in the á
plastic wastepaper basket. It had burnt out and my landlords made á
me a row that I might had set their flat on fire."
"I did badly in one of the vital exams, despite getting proper á
guidance from my parents.  I felt guilty of improper use of the á
chances provided to me. "
"I remember about an unpleasant event in relation to my mother. I á
felt guilty before her."
"I had quarelled with a friend of mine and I later realized that á
it was also my fault."
I couldn't fulfill a promise.
Could not buy a reference book because I got up too late to cue.
"I didn't visit a very close friend at the hospital and some days á
later he died."
Car accident, hurt three of my closest family.
"When I reproached my friend because I was myself low-spirited and á
disappointed."
[ No response.]
"When my library books were overdue and I did not have the money á
to pay for them."
"A sense of guilt before my parents when I had to discountinue my á
studies in the first year because of unpassed exams."
"I felt guilty when I spent a night at my boyfriend's place, á
particularly because I had been harsh and spiteful when I had á
left home.  The reason was that I feared a possible discussion on á
the subject and I wanted to leave defiantly."
"When I blamed my niece for misplacing my book, she denied having á
touched or seen it but I carried on insisting that it was her."
Being disloyal with persons I loved.
"When I didn't study for tests in High School. In particular  á
remember a physics test. I didn't study because my friends talked á
me out of it and we did something else boring. I felt so helpless á
just being there - then guilt set in because I was very "
Made a misjudgement in a football match.
"When I had lied to a friend/son about some things we had á
discussed and I had to be one better."
"One day my mother went to visit her friends.  When she came back á
she scolded me for not having kept the house in order, so I á
decided not to talk to her."
"We had had a party the night before and we still had some liquors á
left the morning after. I went to the kitchen pretending to á
prepare some tea and was caught by my fiancee pouring some rum á
down my throat."
[ No response.]
"When I decided to move away from my parent's home, my mother told á
me that it was as if a part of her had been torn out of her."
"On Reberbahn, I was in a ""restaurant"" where drinks were á
overpriced.  I did not ask for the prices beforehand, and when á
the bill came I could not pay the bill."
"I felt guilty at being part of the successful people. Felt guilty á
at being a student when other people were not. Guilt about being á
a potential success in various areas of society. (So stupid this á
emotion)"
"When I acted in a negative way at a certain moment by laziness á
to concede a moment of the time I thought to be my own."
"At a party, I started talking to a guy I had seen in one of my á
classes. My boyfriend felt awkward and left to talk to a friend á
but kept on looking at me as I talked."
"Once I quarrelled with my sister and after this I deliberately á
messed up her belongings."
"I read about the national and social spirit and self-discipline á
of the people of developed coutries like U.S.A, England, France, á
Germany etc.  Comparing this to the Indian people I felt guilty á
as they have no national spirit or self-discipline."
"When I caused needless anxiety to a person close to me because of á
my lack of self-insight."
"Not attending school, when  am not sick - but in need of mental á
rest. Staff on your return query your ""sickness"" - it is easier á
in N.Z. to be sick, rather than confide other personal reasons á
etc."
Late for a lecture and therefore missed it.
My friend had trouble and I was not able to help him.
Once I promised to do something but I didn't do it.
Not getting the class paper in time for the lecture.
"I was supposed to have done some things for my mother, but just á
plain didn't get around to it."
"I feel always guilty before my parents when I come home and have á
to tell them I have failed an exam."
When I shot a bird in the head with a shotgun.
"A sense of guilt I felt once when I couldn't defend the á
confidence my teacher had in me and thus discrediting him at a á
concert."
"I am going steady with a boy, but I had sexual intercourse with á
another one, and I felt guilty about it afterwards."
Unable to help my mother to cook.
"Something very unpleasant happened when I was a soldier and I was á
directly involved in it."
"Guilt at often being unable to visit a close relative in hospital á
after her death I felt very guilty and wished I had done more."
"A close friend of mine was leaving for graduate school out of á
state. I had arranged to gather some people together the day á
before he left to be with him and have a good time, but I didn't á
pay as much attention to him as I should have."
"When I was responsible for getting my friend run-out in a vital á
cricket match."
"When I spoke ill of a fellow worker in the absence of this á
person."
"I remember when I was a little boy I broke a Swiss dinner set á
quite involuntarily."
"For the sheer pleasure of it, I quarelled with my boyfriend who was trying  á
to be especially kind to me."
Not finishing homework in time.
"When at times unconscienciously I speak to my mother in a high á
tome but after that I am sorry and I feel guilty."
"When I misled a person: I said that I would do her a á
favour and didn't."
"I went to go get a bike innertube fixed. I fixed it and I was á
supposed to pay previously but I didn't. I said I would after I á
fixed the tire. After fixing the tire, the salesperson who helped á
me was gone so I walked out of the store without paying. "
"At my Summer job a new caretaker had been employed who was my age á
 but I preferred going out for lunch with the accounts personnel á
rather than with him."
"I was coming back home with my mother when the purse I was á
carrying got stolen.  It was done so swifty that I did not á
realize what had happened till much later.  A lot of money and the á
keys of the house were lost.  I was guilt ridden at my á
careles"
When I hurt my sisters for no reason at all.
"One night,when I was in primary 5 or 6, I felt thirsty so I á
fetched the thermos to pour a cup of water for myself.  Then I á
saw my brother lowering his head and I, jokingly, poured the       á
water on his head."
"When I realized that I avoided two good friends with whom I á
always shared toys and sorrows. I made up idle stories to avoid á
telling them what happened to me."
"I promised my mother to come home on her birthday, but at last I á
was prevented. Nevertheless it would have been possible to go but á
I did not."
"I was not sure whether I should help an old woman going down a á
flight of stairs. I just watched her and saw how difficult it was á
for her to do it."
"It was about midnight and I wanted to go to the countryside (I á
was in town) to watch the stars in the sky.  My mother did not á
like this, in spite of it I went out for a while.  My mother got á
angry."
"After having been told not to take the car, I took it anyway and á
felt guilty about having taken it."
"By mistake I took a book from the library which was not supposed á
to be loaned out."
I felt guilty after stealing a cookery book from my colleagues.
"In the past I used to think that my mother was a very nagging á
person.  When I started living at the hostel we had little time á
to meet each other.  Whenever I went home she would take care á
of me.  I gradually realized that what she had done was for m"
When as a 7 year old, I stole money from my mother.
"I call my mother at least once a week. However last week I á
completely forgot. This morning she called me, she thought I felt á
ill."
"When I was young, I stole some money from my mother's purse. It á
wasn't very much, but I can remember when she found it gone I á
felt very guilty."
"When I scored the third goal to my own side at a football match á
against William Murray Secondary School and we were badly á
defeated."
[ No description.]
When I was scolded by my dad for bad behaviour.
"I didn't tell my parents exacly what had made me so late in á
getting home one night. I left out some details and somehow, I á
felt I had lied to them."
"I had stopped talking to a very close friend of mine.  A week á
later he came over to try and make friends with me  again and á
from the way he talked I felt that he was a very mean preson."
"When I was in the puberty I smashed the favourite toy of my á
little brother because of a fit of rage."
"When my mother found me in her bedroom ""stealing"" sugar in her á
bedroom.  According to our customs there comes a stage when a á
child stops using the parents bedroom and I was well past that á
age."
"Our Headmaster came to our hostel. The lights were off but there á
was a lot of noise. We shouted at him when he knocked at our á
door. We later saw that it was the Headmaster."
When I "hated" one of mmy flatmates who was nice to me.
I felt guilty when I lost K43 for my friend when he was arrested.
"Yesterday my boyfriend and I wanted to play billiards. However á
there were boys playing (5 times). My boyfriend then is fed up á
and chagrined. In such case I think it is my fault."
"When I did something wrong in the past and denied having done it á
when asked about it later."
"I forgot to water the flowers in our flat and was rebuked by my á
friends who share the flat with me."
I prayed unfaithfully.
"A very, very close friend of mine used to come to my room to      á
see me and I naver bothered to pay him a visit.  One day he asked á
me the reason behind this and I gave him a shirt."
"I quarreled with my boy-friend. He said it was unfair that I á
always started crying so that he had to give in."
"I made an appointment to pick up someone. However I arrived á
too late and she had to wait a quarter of an hour."
"When I was forced to decline the invitation to my mother's 70th á
birthday because of my work committments in another area."
Once I had some homework to do and I did not do it.
"I know that a certain person feels very lonely, and that she á
always looks forward to seeing me. However, often I am too á
busy to visit her, then I feel guilty."
"I was 4-5 years old when I hid the bicycle keys of a not very á
good friend.  After a few hours I pretended that I had found á
it."
"A certain friend evokes positive feelings, when I am with him but á
negative feelings when he is not present. I feel the need to á
express those negative feelings. However, when I speak about him, á
I always think: Why do I like this, he does not deserve "
Talking about someone behind their back.
Not thanking relatives for a favor done.
When I had beaten my auntie.
"I had promised to say goodbye to a person who was going on a á
trip, and I did not turn up."
"A friend of mine got encouragement and I did not, as the á
supervisor did not like me."
"I had been together with my boy-friend for two and a half years, á
when he got to know another girl and not even tried to conceal á
that from me. I drew my conclusions and left him - I also felt a á
bit guilty for what had happened."
"Dad had just married his second wife (my step-mother) and I did á
not like her so I went to the wardrobe and set fire to her á
dresses.  Eveyone suspected my brother and he had to bear the á
consequences.  Nobody ever got to know that it was me who had á
"
"After having told an authority figure a very large lie I was told á
she believed me, because she believed I had never lied to her. "
I broke a glass of glycerine at the Z.C.B.C store in Ndola.
"One day I took a packet of sweets from a certain Grocery at á
Nathenje. Then later on I started to feel guilty and realised á
that I had done a wrong thing to him."
"There was a time when I did not get on well with my sister. I á
always grumbled at her and said bad things about her to my á
mother. So my mother always scolded her."
Not to have studied enough when exams were near.
"I was cold to my sister without meaning it, just because I was á
upset and frustated."
"When I was in P3 I was always punished as I would forget to do my á
homework.  The first time that I was punished and not allowed to á
leave school, I slipped out of school."
"I was walking quite quickly and unthinking through a children's á
playground, when a toddler ran in front of me I knocked him over á
and he hit his head quite hard and began crying."
"I once torn the inner tube of a bike, that was not mine. Then I á
saw it was a brand new one. I felt very guilty then."
"A certain colleague of mine sent me to buy a bag of flour for him, á
he gave me K20. Unfortunately I lost it."
"I was going around with a girl without loving her.  Not only did á
I go around with her, but we did many more things.  In the end I á
was not very sincere to her."
"When I had promised to do some washing for my mother and I did á
not do it.  She did it herself despite her being ill.  I felt á
very guilty."
"I had fixed a meeting with my classmates and I missed it as I was á
tired.  Besides everyone at the meeting was a stranger to me and á
I did not want to make friends with them.  Whatever the reasons - I  á
felt guilty."
To force someone to do something that suits me.
"I spoke to my mother on the phone.  She had skin cancer and was á
waiting to be operated.  I forgot to ask her the date of the á
operation and just before finishing our conversation she gave me á
the date in passing. "
"I had known the girl for a few months when I proposed to her and this á
put an end to our friendship, as from then on we started á
withdrawing from each other.  I liked her very much."
"Guilt after fighting with my sister (for) telling her how bad she á
was."
"Once after falling in love, I imagined that particular girl to be á
perfect and completely overshadowing my girlfriend. Afterwards I á
realized that this image was not objective. I felt guilty against á
both girls."
"I felt guilty one day when I stole a slice of bread in a á
cafeteria."
"An item which belonged to a friend of mine was missing.  I had á
taken it earlier and I thought that I had returnrd it so when he á
asked me for it I stubbornly refused having it.  Later when I á
looked for it, I found it in my room."
"An accident happened to my little cousin because I had not taken á
enough care of her. She fell on the floor and her hands were á
hurt."
"One day while we were strolling along the road one of my á
friends suggested that we go and watch a blue film.  I was á
curious so I went along but I felt quite guilty later."
"Many years ago a friend wanted me to with her to southern Europe á
and I preferred to travel alone.  I felt guilty because I wanted á
to go on my own."
Borrowed someone else's towel without asking.
"After I reluctantly refused to dine with a certain man on the á
same table."
I cheated my boyfriend.
"I get irritated with my son when he screams or is sick all over á
his clean clothes."
"It was when I discovered that the girl who I had proposed was a á
friend's girlfriend."
"During a holiday in East-Germany I got aquainted with a boy who á
lived there. We started writing, but I only wrote once. I felt á
ashamed because I probably was one of his sparse contacts with á
western Europe."
"I stole a coconut cake from a reception table and when I put á
in my mouth I realized that the host was watching me."
"I had to undergo an operation in Summer and so my family had to á
stay at home during the holidays.  I felt guilty, above all á
because of my brothers."
"When I used to tell Mum I was going somewhere else than where I á
was (going)."
"We were at secondary school and I was making a lot of noise.  The á
teacher came to ask us as to who was making all the noise.  I did á
not own up so the  whole class was punished."
"After an exam I was in a very bad mood as I had done it very       á
badly.  At home, my mother took so long to ask me how things had  á
gone that I lost my temper.  I overreacted and made my mother cry. á
She still prepared lunch for me and did not scold"
"I remember deceiving my brother, I told him that I was going to á
attend the Sunday service, instead I went out to the town with a friend. "
"Once in my homes yard, I was plaing football with my cousin and á
in a certain quick the ball went on uncontrolled putting down a á
bird-cage, killing it."
When I failed an exam I thought I could pass easily.
"When I cancelled an appointment with an idle story. Afterwards á
it appeared that the person had looked forward to it and reserved á
time for it."
"When I was driving my car, I wanted to pick something from the á
floor of the car and drove into the guide-rail. I thought that I á
should not have done that and felt guilty."
"One day, I was alone on duty when a patient choked while eating.  á
I ran to her and tried to make her breath, but it was too late."
"Sometime back I came across a certain man who was badly beaten by á
some people because he was found raping the wife of the village á
headman."
"I knew I had to take an exam very soon but yet I couldn't start á
studying. I also knew it was very imprtant to succeed the exam á
this time."
When I was rude to my mother and got angry with her.
"A certain woman had asked me to make something for her and I kept á
putting it off.  When I finally made it, I did not see her for á
days only to be told one day that she had collapsed and died.  I á
felt quite guilty as she had jokingly said that I might"
"I send a word to my boss through my servant telling him that I á
would not report for work as I was not feeling well and that the   á
doctor had refused to give me sick leave.  My intention was á
actually to go out of Lusaka for a week-end.  I left the sa"
"The first time that I ""played with myself"" despite being a á
Christian.  I had read in the bible that it was wrong to make á
love to someone one is not married to."
"I slapped my sister's daughter and after several hours, she had a á
high temperature and she ended up being admitted in hospital."
"When I have to take exams I am very excited and have not much á
time for the housekeeping. Then my friend has to do everything."
"A child was admitted in hospital with Meningitis. I was asked to á
do lumber puncture to obtain Celebral Spinal fluid for diagnostic á
purposes. Since the condition was already bad, the child died as á
soon as I finished the procedure."
"I had lunch with my ex-boyfriend and did not mention it to my á
fiancee.  I felt guilty despite the fact that I felt nothing for á
my ex-boyfriend."
"When I splashed a child by not slowing down while driving á
through a puddle of water."
"I failed to keep a promise and this had a serious effet on someone's á
problem."
"My younger sister wanted to take classes to learn a musical á
instrument.  One Saturday morning my mother asked me to go with        á
her for the registration.  I did not want to go  so I said that á
there might be many bad people at the club.  As a resu"
"A few weeks ago I thought about an exam I had to take soon. I á
remembered this just before I had to go to sleep. I felt guilt á
because at the beginning of the year I planned to succeed."
"I threw away an object, which belonged to a friend, because I did á
not know what to do with it. My friend was very sad about that á
and I felt guilty."
"Eating too much I felt guilty afterwards because I knew I á
shouldn't have overeaten as I'm putting on too much weight."
"When I was fighting with my elder brother I unintentionally hurt   á
him in the eye with a wooden bar.  I felt guilty and feared that á
he would be blind, fortunately he recovered after 15 days."
"I felt guilt to have come back from home without seeing my father. á
When I went home he was at work."
"When I had broken a piece of glass of the refrigerator by putting á
a hot pan in it."
"I felt guilty when I was given a prize which belonged to someone á
else."
"It was on January 1st 1985 when I accidentally broke a Fanta á
bottle in a certain bottle store in Zomba."
"When my friends and I were caught with our girlfriends outside á
the school grounds when I was at the secondary school.  We were á
caught by the headmaster."
"I was trying to have sex with my best friend's girl but she did á
not agree to it."
Not doing something I had promised.
"One night, I went out with some friends for dinner and I did not á
tell my parents that I would come back late.  I thought of á
phoning but in the end I did not.  When I arrived home, my á
parents were very worried."
After the death of a girl who I disliked.
"Family discord and uneasiness due to something I did not á
communicate on time."
"On a telephone talk where I was agressive and stupid without the á
least, reason or better motive."
"While playing basketball I broke a team member's spectacles.  His á
face was injured by the  pieces of glass.  It was not serious but á
I felt guilty and blamed myself for being too careless and á
vigorous in my game."
When I feigned sick leave from work.
"[ I can not remember anything in particular.  What I can remember á
is feelings of having done or said something which then had á
negative consequences.]"
"I felt guilty about going out when I should have been studying á
for a presentation I had to give on Wednesday the next week."
"When I think that I do not study enough.  After the weekend I á
think that I should have been able to have accomplished á
something during that time."
At work a boy was injured because of my lack of supervision.
Ignoring my parents'wishes.
When I was fined for speeding.
I made my boyfriend so unhappy and depressed that I feel guilty.
When my friend was punished for something that I had done.
"I became very angry with my friend because he didn't do shopping, á
while we agreed on him doing this. My being angry was proved to be á
without reason and I felt guilty about it."
When I was reproved eighth grade of high school.
"This situation happened when my friend me with a knife which I á
stole from him."
"When I used an adjective for a person without knowing what it á
meant.   When I got to know the meaning, I felt guilty as it was á
a clear and unfair insult."
"A very close friend of mine invited me to spend the holidays with á
him.  He was very kind, good and understanding.  However it á
turned out that he had two of his cousins at his place.  He, á
however gave me everything I needed - even transport money."
"I was sitting in a restaurant with friends and I knew that in the á
meantime my girl-friend must have come to my flat and found the á
door closed."
When having a relationship, I made love with another girl.
"I felt guilty when I skipped a two hour practical class I knew I á
would miss out on more information which I did not know, but I á
couldn't cope with going."
"When my middle child became very difficult to handle after the á
birth of his baby brother and I did not have any patience with á
him."
"I made a remark to my sister concerning her attitude to men, the á
way she talked and I compared her to an acquaintance of mine.  á
Later, the same evening, my sister looked sad.  I felt guilty á
about her sadness."
"As I was not paying attention, my little brother fell off the á
table."
"I was drunk one night and I insulted three ladies.  The following á
morning they approached me and asked me the reason behind my á
bahaviour, I apologized for my unruly behaviour."
"Leaving home when my mother thought I had no reason to go and á
felt that I was rejecting her. She is a constantly depressed á
person (a bit of a worry-wort) and I felt guilty about having á
given her this additonal problem."
When I triffled with other people.
"When we were playing, I hurt my little sister, but towards my á
mother I did not admit that it was my fault."
When I demand too much from my friends.
"I blew up at someone for being confused and because of his á
irresponsibility and afterwards I felt guilty and that I had no á
right."
"The time I was at secondary school during the holiday I appeared á
to my father while heavily drunk and I talked nonsense like in á
some sort of carefree."
After masturbation.
"When I was 5, a few of my friends and I would light matches for á
fun. One of my friends confessed to her parents and my parents, I á
guess, knew or suspected I was involved but I said I knew á
nothing about it."
Saw a blue film in a cinema.
"After being told that an ex-boyfriend had been hurt by my wearing á
something he had given me when I was with another guy. I was á
unaware of my actions really, as I had not considered the fact á
that he had given it to me, and might see me. I still respe"
"When I promised to visit my boyfriend and I didn't fulfil the á
promise."
When one of my lovers told me that I was a flirt.
"When one of my parents insinuates something about the other á
(they are divorced)."
"I felt guilty after hearing that my girlfriend with whom I had á
spent most of my time was pregnant."
"I was with a girl one night and then did not call her again, á
although she had asked me to do so."
"When my husband talked about the restrictions he will have to á
accept in his life to make our marriage work.  I felt that it was á
directed at me as it was me who had demanded the changes.  We á
were with a marriage counsellor then."
"When I broke up my relationship with my former girlfriend as she á
would ask me irrelevant quetions about my past."
"I had spent the weekend visiting relatives and friends and didn't á
study for Anatomy class on Monday."
I took french leave to do my homework.
"During an argument with my brother, I behaved rather á
intransigently, even cruelly, wishing to morally hurt the ""person"" á
opposed to me."
"My uncle had promised to buy me a bicycle. As time went by and I á
had not received it yet, I asked my father to buy it for me. á
Later I heard that my uncle had wanted to offer me the bicycle on á
my birthday two weeks later."
"One day I was chatting with children at home. Then I took a lump á
of soap and gave to one of them pretending that it was a sweet. I á
thought the child would realise that it was not. Unfortunately he á
did not and he put it in his mouth."
"When I was very young, one day, I kicked my grandmother and á
caused her an injury which took a long time to heal."
"I arrived an hour late for an important meeting ( I had á
misunderstood the time)."
"I was entrusted with an object and while using it I handled it á
carelessly and it broke."
"I told my elder brother that he was irresponsible and that I did á
not care for what he did because he was teasing me."
"I felt guilty one day when I was accused of running away from á
classes and I was caught."
"I was on a concert-tour and therefor seperated from my á
boy-friend. But I needed warmth which was given by a male member á
of the orchestra. My feelings towards him were not very deep, but á
his feelings were. I felt guilty when he said ""I am not a á
rad"
"When I was with a girl who seemed to love me, while I was with á
her just to go to bed with her."
"When I came very late one night (or morning !) and my parents á
were waiting, not so much angrgy as disappointed."
"When I saw a program on Ethiopia on T.V, a fews hours earlier I á
had thrown away some clothes and food."
I stole 5c from my mother's purse for a choo-choo bar - I was 6.
"Guilt - because I had not written to my sister for months before á
she died."
"I took some money from my parent's house without asking them for á
it, and I was caught red handed."
"I called my little sister to make her pick up her toy from the á
floor. When she still refused after I had asked her for the á
fourth time, we began to quarrel. At last the whole family was á
involved in this quarrel and trouble was brewing."
"When my parents quarelled over something I had done and which was á
wrong."
"As the only person in my family into academics, I ought to have á
looked after my younger (and only) sister better, with respect to á
her education and life experiences."
"I cannot recall feeling guilty in the near past.
REMARK - SUBJECT MAY NOT HAVE TAKEN THE EXERCISE VERY SERIOUSLY."
"I was looking after a child and she fell down because I was not á
paying her much attention.  One side of her face got bruised."
"I had told my boyfriend that I did not want to go on with our á
relationship.  I knew that I was important to him but I wanted to á
be free.  I saw that this was difficult for him but I remained á
firm and did not change my mind."
"My mother and father had forbidden me to ride my scooter on the á
road, and I had transgressed (together with the ""wild"" kids from á
across the street) by riding my scooter down a steep hill near á
our house. My mother sent the boy next door to collect me"
"When I inadvertantly made some close friends and relatives feel á
bad."
"I felt guilty when I was found to be the chief leader of making á
noise in class."
"I bought something and the shopkeeper gave me more change, I á
realized this after I had left the shop and was on the bus-stop - á
and I then needed the money."
Failed to keep an appointment.
When I hurt a person's feelings.
"I once felt guilty when a certain passenger in the same (ship, á
plane ?) which I boarded when coming from home lost his 10t which á
in fact fell into my pocket unknowingly."
"I had arranged to meet my friends at a certain place, and I was á
with other people.  My friends did not arrive and the people who á
were with me began to get tired.  My friends were one hour late."
NO RESPONSE.
"Once I bought my sister a pair of sports shoes as she was going á
to join an athletic meet.  However the shoes were a little big á
and had a few flaws.  She muttered all the way and blamed me for á
having wasted her money anf I felt guilty."
"It was when I injured a friend accidentally with a stone. It made á
a cut on the cheeks which resulted in suturing."
Often I forget to give my immediate family birthday presents.
"A girl whom I hadn't seen for a period of time told me that she á
had been pregnant and had an abortion - I was the father."
"Some of my friends had an argument.  I had earlier phoned one á
of them and that may have influenced him to argue."
"During a discussion I reacted very aggressively and so I made it á
impossible to continue discussing."
"I had a discussion with my girl-friend. After some time we á
started to quarrel and at least - to get the upper hand - I said á
that she was not as important to me as she might believe. Some á
time later I apologized for that."
"When I got fired from a job because I gave a discount to a á
friend."
"When I discovered that the girl I was courting was a relative of á
mine."
"I accused my husband of being late deliberately when he came to á
pick me up from work."
"As I could not be home before midnight I called home at 11.30 and á
asked them to leave the door open so that I could get in.  I á
actually woke up the whole family by calling them so late.  My á
mother could not go back to sleep, besides she had a confer"
"While quarreling with my brother I broke the glass door of the á
cupboard and a china doll.  We were scolded by my father for á
breaking the door but we did not tell him about the door."
"I left a boy with whom I was going around without giving him any á
explanations."
When I broke something and a friend of mine was blamed.
When I committed the sin of immorality mentioned before.
When I lost something that was valuable to my sister.
"I feel guilty when when I realize that I consider material things á
more important than caring for my relatives.  I feel very á
self-centered."
"Carried out a vandalistic act on some windows at an old army á
location."
"I went to a pub with a group of friends (not very close) and á
I was with one girl most of the time, while the other girls in the á
group wanted to be with me.  They stopped talking to the girl I á
was with."
"One time I felt guilty when I told one of my previous boyfriends á
we were through just because I never felt like having one at that á
particular time."
"I borrowed money from a friend and did not pay back the debt when á
I said I would."
"In the begining of teenage, on the matters of sex - speaking á
about sex."
A situation where I stole a friends wife's wallet.
"I could have passed the last exam of the public competition, but á
I failed as I had not studied."
I lied to one of my best friends.
"I felt guilty when one of my secondary teacher left me while I á
was in Form three, he was the only one who showed love to me."
"I had promised to visit my girlfriend but for different reasons á
could not make it.  I rang up later to tell her that I could not á
come."
After an argument with a friend of mine.
"When I broke off with my boyfriend after three years.  It was á
quite unexpected for him and there was no particular reason for á
the break up, such as someone else."
"A girl dropped some stuff from her bag and when I tried to help á
her I realized that she had used me and I was made to look like a á
fool."
"I had an argument with my boyfriend.  It was my fault but my á
pride would not let me admit it."
"I am not very affectionate and I feel guilty as I do not give as á
much affection as I receive."
"I had promised myself that I would do one good deed every day.  á
One night I saw a beggar whose muscles had been atrophyed.  I á
walked passed him thinking that he was feigning.  Later I á
realized that he had not been pretending and I had a feeling of á"
I was caught sneaking sweets.
Losing my temper with my spouse.
Because I had not studied.
"Before going to school I usually take something to eat right at á
school and this time I took Father's money without him knowing á
it. I felt guilty and I returned the money."
"I was unfaithful to my partner once when he was working abroad á
for a long period."
[ Never felt the emotion.]
"I joked with an unfamiliar friend in an obstinate tone.  I was á
afraid of his misunderstanding me and being hurt and angry at me. á
 I felt sorry over my conduct and thought that I had to find an á
opportunity to apologize."
"Leaving University in 1982 following exclusion and lying to á
parents/friends about reasons for leaving, i.e. lying about the á
fact of having been excluded."
"At my temporary job, I have to restrict  others' actions and make á
them obey me, and this very often gives me  a feeling of guilt.  I á
wish there could be some other way of acting."
"I felt guilty of revealing a secret to my in-law. I told her that á
my brother and I had gone to disconight which is a thing my á
brother didn't want to let her know. Later my brother was accused á
of spending a night out."
"When I still went to primary-school, I went on a ski-trip with my á
family. After skiing we went to a restaurant for lunch. Suddenly á
my father said that he had forgotten something in the car. He á
gave me the key and asked me to go and get it. I had dif"
"One night, after having decided to finish our relationship, I á
took my girlfriend home.  While driving back home, I felt that I á
had not handled the whole thing very well."
When I had drunk too much and nearly got an alcohol poisoning.
"When I stole money from my mother and she asked me later if I was á
responsible.  I never admitted it."
"When my pet dog,who was to us a family member, died.  He had been á
vomitting for the past three days and we had not found the time á
to call a vet, finally when the vet came it was already too late."
"When I had lied, saying that I never take bread from the dinning á
hall and a friend of mine caught me doing it.  He thus proved to á
me that I did in fact take the bread."
"I have chosen to put my son in a private school were the á
examination marks are low.  Every time that he gives me his term á
results I am left with a sense of guilt."
"By fun I had a tussle with my sister. Suddenly I obviously hurt á
her unintentionally - and she ran out of the room, crying."
"I entered the hostel this year.  My mother was ill and could not á
move and needed people to look after her.  Every week I left home á
to go back to school, I felt guilty."
I had shown anger toward my dog and he was killed later that day.
"When my brother had to spend all evening repairing a gear-lever á
that I had broken."
"I had to take care of a neighbour's child. I did not look after á
it all the time and the child fell down and was hurt. I felt á
guilty."
"Our association had Polish visitors and when they were going back á
by boat I did not go to see them off (I am the chairman of the á
association)."
"A few days back my mother was not feeling too well and still did á
all the house work.  I felt guilty as I had not offered to help."
I said something which was against my conscience.
"A neighbour complained about smoke from my backyard incinerator á
entering his house after a change of wind direction. I lit the á
fire after originally checking that the wind would not blow the á
smoke in that direction."
"I felt guilty when the truth was known about my impregnating the á
girl we were staying with."
"Not speaking to my sister-in-law due to lack of interest in a á
relationship on my side."
"When I failed an exam for which I knew that I had not studied á
hard enough."
I did not deliver a message on time.
"Guilt at having pressed another person to expose/explore his á
personal weaknesses/faults, to the extent that the other person á
was made to feel terrible/defensive."
When I shouted at my mother when she was nervous and depressed.
"I wasn't able to see my girlfriend on her birthday and because I á
was late arriving home from uni, I didn't phone her as arranged á
at a certain time (she rang in the meantime)."
"I felt guilty at not having practised the piano.  I waste my á
teacher's time and guidance."
My younger sister was almost run over by a lorry.
"When I didn't notify someone that he was summoned by a headmaster á
and as a result he ended being on a heavy punishment."
"I had to take care of my little brother. When I met a friend I á
did not pay attention to him for a certain time and he was hurt á
while he was playing."
"I had an argument with a friend of mine.  She would not let me á
speak and then I began to shout at her.  She got angry and left, á
I did not try to prevent her from leaving."
"When I decided to take a week s holiday without consulting the á
family first."
"When I cheated my father and told him that the school á
administration wanted K80 for the purchase of a mini-bus.  Two á
months later the school authorities wrote back to my father for á
the money.  I could not go back and ask him for the money again á
as"
When a friend of mine was beaten for what was my fault.
"[ No answer as I see very little difference between shame and á
guilt.  Therefore see answer for ""shame"".]"
[ I have not felt this emotion.]
"I was keeping a friend's Library book which went overdue. My á
friend was charged for the delay in returning the book to the á
Library. I felt guilty when I realised I was responsible."
"My father caught me having sexual intercourse with my closest á
cousin.  There was nothing wrong with it but the female was too á
old for me."
When my uncle and my neighbour came home under police escort.
"When I had an argument with my grandfather the day my younger á
brother was born."
"When ,due to hunger and tiredness, I became generally irritated á
with my fiancee and made cutting remarks which really hurt him.  á
Later I realized that my unfounded irritation had hurt the person á
I love most on earth."
"When my brother ran away from home and I thought it was because á
of my continously scolding him."
"I saved up money for a good purpose. As I also have to organise a á
party I am afraid there will rest only a little money for the á
good purpose I feel guilty about this."
"When I talked to another student about the notes she got last á
semester, not knowing that she got a lot of bad grades."
"When I beat up a first year student at my secondary school in á
my capacity as the deputy head boy.  He had woken up late in the  á
morning for manual work."
"I had shouted at my younger brother and he was always afraid when á
I called out loudly."
"With a group of handicapped people we went to a party. When we á
wanted to leave we were not able to find one of these people. I á
had told his mother that we would leave at 4.30 p.m., actually it á
was planned for 3.30 p.m. Therefore there was a delay."
"One day I found an incontinent man in the ward. This patient had a á
guardian who couldn't give him a bath. So I just left him like that á
but felt guilty until I went back to give him a bath."
"A friend of mine had a bicycle-accident because I pulled at his á
handlebar."
"I had to decline an appointment which had been very important for á
the other person. For this reason we even got into trouble."
"When I have sometimes been unfair to my parents, when I have á
happened to deceive them over some trifling things."
"I was in a sanatorium. In front of me a boy fell down from his á
invalid's chair. I could help him but I didn't. I felt like being á
paralysed."
"I had to tell a collegue the time for an appointment with another á
collegue. I told her the wrong time - it was obviously my fault."
"When I beat up my brother so badly, for not having gone to school, á
that we had to take him to hospital."
"When it was discovered that I had done the assignment at my work á
place, this caused a lot of embarrassment for me."
My wrong behaviour made my loved one feel sad and uneasy.
"I had a quarrel with near persons. I said many ill-considered á
things and I regretted it when it was to late."
"When a classmate wanted to sit down, I pulled his chair away, so á
that he was slightly injured."
[ No response.]
"That evening when I opened the songbook while I was singing the á
song ""Those were the days"" that guilt feeling became stronger.  á
The lyrics described well - I was really wrong.  The wish that I á
had made was really bad. If she were with me I would rea"
"When my friend needed my help very much and I, at that moment, made á
an end to our relationship."
"A friend who was 22 years old, died of leukemia; I had not known á
that he was so ill and therefore had not cared."
When someone is accused or punished instead of me.
"I felt guilty because I had not accomplished a thing as well as I á
had wanted to."
"I was alone at home when I broke a figure and then mended it.  A á
few days later my mother noticed it and asked me about it, I told á
her that I had no idea."
"I got up late and I could not go to my lessons on time.  When I á
entered the class room the stare of the teacher and my classmates á
made me feel guilty."
"At a party, several comments were made about the personal á
situation of one of the people present.  She was rather affected á
and uncomfortable."
"When I sided with my mother in a quarrel she had with my father á
before they briefly separated."
"I wrote a bad letter to someone concerning our relationship which á
we created ourselves."
"Someone had to do a lot of efforts to make something work. With á
my help he would have finished much sooner, but I wasn't in the á
mood to help him."
[ No response.]
"When I laughed at a lame man walking down the road, it looked á
funny at the time but later I felt lousy.  It was the same day á
that I had stolen some coins from my mother in the shop."
"I had told a person unpleasant things in a bad manner. He was á
very depressed and caused an accident."
"When I told the driver at my workplace to lie and tell the boss á
that it was not me who was responsible for the delay.  The boss á
was very annoyed and the driver was punished and a day's salary á
was taken away from him."
"I have a two-month old baby.  When I came here, to the á
university, to attend lectures, I had to leave the baby with his á
father.  I felt guilty."
[ Do not remember any incident.]
"When I do or say something inappropriate which hurts people close á
to me."
Little contact with my father before he died.
"When I didn't bring my girlfriend home one night. Later she told á
me that a cardriver solicited her."
"I felt the emotion when I fought somebody who was drunk and tried á
to disturb us while we were having meals."
"When I cheated my trusting girlfriend by telling her that I was a á
qualified doctor and later she found out that I was only a á
medical student at the preclinical level."
When I was caught going out with another girl by my girlfriend.
I stole carrots and got caught.  I had to apologize to the owner.
"When I told my boy-friend, who loved me very much, that I wanted á
to put an end to our relationship. a long time before I told him á
that and also a long time after that I felt guilty, because I had á
hurt him so much."
"Flirting with other girls while I already had a very good á
relationship. When there are problems in my relationship, the á
flirting increases as does the feeling of guilt."
"I felt guilty when I tore a photograph I found at my boyfriend's á
place only to realise that it was his sister who was on the á
photograph."
"When I was parking my car I was not cautious and bumped into á
another car. I caused considerable damage. The driver of the á
other car was very angry and I let him insult me because I felt á
guilty."
"When I caused problems for somebody because he could not keep the á
appointed time and this led to various consequences."
When I got very drunk and really misbehaved at Christmas.
"I felt it when playing I pushed my brother and he fell down á
cutting himself in pieces of tile."
"There were old people in a crowded bus and I did not have the á
courage to give them my seat.  I closed my eyes to sleep and then á
opened my book to read.  In my heart I wanted to give them the á
seat."
"Once when I complained I caused a great discussion between my á
parents."
"In an exam when I answered the questions with very little á
assurance due to insufficiet preparation."
"I ate a Runeberg's cake, though I knew that I would immediately á
put on a kilo."
When I had a little accident with my boss'car.
When one has neglected or been unjust to a good friend.
"My father had been alone for a long time because my mother and á
sister were on holiday. I had not seen him for a long time and á
when I finally called him I realized that he had been very sad á
about that."
"When I forgot to cook something that my mother had told me to, á
and at supper time the food that I was supposed to have prepared á
was not there."
"I encouraged my brother to play football and he was hurt while á
playing the game."
"Once when I was in the cell group (religious activity) I found á
that almost everyone in the group read the bible daily and I felt á
guilty in my heart."
"I do not have the time for other people's problems.  My á
mother-in-law is sometimes depressed and I do not have the time, á
the desire or the strength to help."
"My mother always evokes feelings of guilt in me. For instance á
when I miss the last bus I know she will be concerned for me and á
stay awake till I arrive."
"I argued with my father on matters concerning marriage. á
Traditionally speaking, I was not supposed to, so I felt guilty á
of violating my traditions which I must hold in esteem."
I pointed a failure of a friend of mine.
"When I was driving my motorbike I went into a bend incautiously á
and fell down. I was slightly hurt, the motorbike was slightly á
damaged."
"One evening I went fishing with some friends but we could not á
fish as a fisherman had already put his net there.  We pulled á
out the net to find only crabs in it so we threw the net away.  á
The net was large and may have cost $1000.  The fisherman use"
"When I was caught with another man's wife.  I had taken the á
opportuinty as this man was abroad but he returned that night."
"My sisters asked me to fetch them at a discotheque which is 5 km á
off. There was a thick fog and snowfall. There was not enough á
room in the car for all of them and they asked me to go there á
once again. When I did not do that they had a way to make me"
"I borrowed a piece of music of someone and I always forgot to á
give it back. That person wrote me a letter asking me to give it á
back. I did so and I told him an idle story why I kept it for so á
long."
When I could not fulfill my expectations.
"For the above: guilt at not living up to my own moral á
expectation, guilt for not being the type of person my patents á
wanted, guilt for just about bloody everything, just realising á
that I have failed drastically in my own eyes."
"When I was late for work and told my boss that it was due to á
transport problem, whereas the truth was that I had woken up á
late.  I thus cheated my boss."
When my behaviour was immoral - thinking about sex.
"I felt guilty about talking negatively, and agreeing with a á
person who was doing likewise, about a non-present third person."
"Our class had organized a picnic in November.  I was the class á
representative so I became the organizor.  However the picnic á
was postponed by one week and I had something else to do then. á
Initially I did not ponder on what to do and decided to go fo"
"When I was 4, we spent our holidays at the seaside. My sister and á
her friend wanted to go to a bay on an undangerous way. I wanted á
to arrive before them and went on a shorter, but more dangerous á
way. When I arrived, I found nobody there. I waited fo"
"I was in a cafe with another person when, suddenly, several close á
friends of my partner appeared.  I did not know what to do and my á
partner felt uncomfortable."
When I hit my young sister without a valid reason.
"Before an accident, my aunt offered me the front seat of the car, á
next to the driver. I declined, she took that seat and was killed á
there when the car crashed."
"I had promised my friend to take her to an important appontment á
but I was late. So she missed the opportunity to get a wellpayed á
holiday job."
"Having suffered a not very pretty sight, I reacted by uttering á
some very cruel and sharp words."
The results of the mid term examinations were very poor.
"My mother had sent me to buy a few things.  The change I brought á
back was not right as I had given away some money to a friend á
thinking that she would not notice it.  However, my mother told á
me that the change was not correct."
"I felt very guilty when a student, sitting in front of me in the á
exam, asked me a few questions and I did not show him the answers, á
 though I knew them.á
"
"When I was about 14 years old, I ""borrowed"" a can of drink from á
the refrigerator, intending to replace it later that day. But it á
was found missing before I could do anything - no one owned up to á
its disappearance."
"I hit my cousin badly after she threw away my dresses in a á
pit-latrine that the little girl fainted."
"One saturday night I did some meaningless work and went to bed á
very late.  Next morning I had was very sleepy so I continued á
sleeping even though I had work to do and I missed the Sunday á
service."
"In Biarritz (the South of France) I met some English students á
who, especially for me, went to Paris and gave me food, while I á
didn't have any more money."
When I was bluffing in front of my mother to get more money.
[ I have not felt this emotion in my life.]
[ I do not remember any event when I felt guilty.]
"As a child - accidentally stepping on a pet guinea-pig - it á
dying."
"[ When I act thinking that I know everything and I then realize á
that there were things I had not thought about, thus hurting á
others.]"
"When I shirked the gymnastic lesson I met the director of our á
school who asked me what I was doing."
"I ""snapped"" very abruptly at my mother when she said something á
silly and stupid, (in front of other people) she looked so á
defenceless & hurt & told them that I'm always doing that."
"During my holidays I had a boyfriend who turned away from me á
outwardly. Therefore I danced with another man and raised certain á
hopes in him. After a while I had to explain to him the á
circumstances"
"When my father told me that I should help my mother more often, á
because she was so busy. And I realized that he was right."
"I felt guilty when I said bad things to my sister, I had not á
intended to do so.  She cried a lot and later she fell ill and I á
felt responsible for her illness."
[ Can not think of anything just now.]
"I saw a neighbour, from the same appartment block as me, lying    á
on the road.  He could have been injured or ill.  I kept 20 á
metres away and did not go to help him."
"I spied on my fiancT and was terribly jealous. Later I saw that á
there was no reason for that."
"When I was a child I often quarrelled with my younger sister. á
Once I became so angry that I slapped her in the face. She cried á
and shouted so that my mother came in and scolded me."
"When I had wrongly explained someone an important exemple for an á
examination."
[ Not applicable.]
"Last year I was asked to look after my niece while her mother was á
cooking.  Unfortunately the kid fell off the bed, I was confident á
that she would not fall and had not been paying much attention."
I made another person cry for an unjustified cause.
Friend's fiancT left her for me.
Meeting a male friend with whose wife I was having an affair.
"Once I worked as a designer. A fitter was hard hit in a damage á
that occurred at the building site I had designed."
"I have cut loose from my father a few years ago. I know he is á
very sad about this."
"My patient died of Anaemia while I was organising blood á
transfusion for him, so I felt guilty, because I thought that may á
be I was slow."
I caught a close relative with the servant of the house.
"Many years back I quarrelled with my younger brother for a small á
reason.  I used a pole to beat him and nearly broke his arm.  He á
recovered after a treatment which lasted several months.  After á
this our relationship was worse and he would not listen"
"When I was made to feel responsible for the emotional state a friend of á
mine was in."
"I was in grade seven and my class was planning a protest against á
a rude and immoral teacher.  I sneaked out and told the á
headmaster about it and so the plan was foiled."
I broke my friend's badminton racket and she kept quiet about it.
"Leaving a friend of mine alone at a dance - I felt I should have á
kept her company."
"Promising someone to do their job and then not being able to do á
it due to transport troubles."
When I noticed the negative changes in a friend's behaviour. 
"My friend had written a letter to me, the contents of which I á
misunderstood and I wrote back a very harsh letter to her.  On á
realizing the blunder I had made, I felt like hiding my face in á
the sand."
Betraying someone's trust.
"I rejected a person whom I had always thought to be a friend.  I á
told him so and he reacted angrily.  I felt guilty at not having á
realized it before and at having hurt him."
"I felt guilt when my friends were punished to slash grass at the á
gound because of making noise in class. I was in the group of á
noise-makers but I denied having done any noise."
"In a situation with my girlfriend I took a decision.  Later when á
I thought about it, I realized that it was an erroneous decision."
"After I had cheated my parents that I had lost my textbooks so á
they had to send me money."
"In September 1984 I got two girls pregnant and the families of á
both the girls confronted me .  The fact was that my parents were á
around and I felt guilty answering some of the questions."
"I had wasted some time instead of doing something I needed to do á
to give to a friend. (Also in the time I wasted I had done some á
things I did not consider morally right)."
I cut a friend's hair in anger, without any consideration.
"I beat up a female friend after I heard the defamatory stories that á
she had been telling.  I was later called to explain my á
behaviour."
"I happened to have met one of my teachers in town during working á
hours. The badness was I didn't ask for permission to go out and á
I was guilty-conscious."
[ No response.]
"Against the will and without the approval of my parents I went á
for a few days to my boyfriend in Germany."
"I felt guilty of having suspected my room-mate of stealing the á
money last term."
"I promised to join a meeting but did not turn up as I did not á
want to do the work."
"Incomprehension and repression towards a child's behaviour, á
commonly not accepted, and making the child cry."
"A friend of mine felt bad because of something I had done to á
something that belonged to him."
"When a crawling child got burnt because of my negligence to keep á
the child away from the fire."
"I once stole my father's money and denied having done it. Instead á
father threatened my young brother and he was beaten. He was á
innocent and I felt guilty."
When I took the car of someone without saying it to him.
"We owned a shop and I used to serve in it occasionally. We á
sometimes took lollies out of the stand and Dad caught me one á
day."
"When I was 17, I told Mum I came in at midnight, when really it á
was 3.30."
That I didn't take the time to make an appointment with someone.
"When I lost my study grant without having attended any exam in á
the career I had started, and it was too late to cancel my registration."
"Once, I accidentally injured a boy in the eye and he almost lost á
it."
When I lied to the physiology teacher.
I do not study enough as I do not understand it properly.
"When a patient in the ward died (one who had been under my care). á
I felt as if I didn't give the appropriate care to the patient."
"At school, I did not tell the teacher that it was me who á
had laughed, and she punished the entire class by making them á
stay behind for one hour."
"When I pulled a chair from under someone at kindergarten and he á
hit his head."
When I nearly got my fiancee pregnant.
"I took Pharmacology books from my friend's desk without á
permission and I was found guilty."
The time that I had to put my dog to sleep.
"One day when I was working, I went out for dinner with friends á
without my parents knowledge and I only came home at 2300 hours."
"When my friend ended up pregnant by a gentleman whom I considered á
to be good and faithful but he ended up neglecting her and not á
bothering about her."
"One day I took my playmates to the river to swim and play. One á
of them was epileptic so he drowned into the water. I felt guilty á
because it was me who took them there."
"I was once called in court in Zemba Traditional court to answer a á
charge of impregnanting a young lady, I felt guilty for she had á
some letters which I used to write her as an exhibit in court."
"When I cheated my father about the book allowance at university.  á
He discovered that we were given K150 per year for books."
"At one time while at primary school I lost a pencil case of a á
friend and I didn't mention it to her until after a fortnight."
"When I got associated with a boy one year ago, I neglected my á
best friend. When the relation with this boy finished she behaved á
very easy-going towards me. I felt guilty then."
I refused to lend my homework to a friend.
Not giving up something for Lent.
"I went to my boyfrien's house. There I found clothes of a certain á
girl. Without asking whose clothes they were I started tearing á
them only to realise that they were his sister's and so I felt á
guilty."
"When I don't go to my parents on Sunday and phone them to tell á
them that I have to study. The truth is that I listened to sports á
on the radio."
[ No response.]
"I had promised to do a task for someone that was close to me, and á
from the outset I knew it was important that I do it, but when it á
came to it, I let them down."
"We always made a lot of noise during a certain lecture.  This may á
have been because we did not respect the lecturer. Finaly, the á
lecturer could not tolerate it and he scolded us angrily and á
pointed out our misbehaviour."
"It is some years ago when my mother found me stealing relish in á
the pot. It was fresh fish which was very appetising."
When I overate at lunch.
"Feeling guilt after greed, buying chocolate and pigging out to á
the point of feeling sick, especially as I am fat."
I spread abroad an intimate secret.
"I had a quarrel with my father. He was depressed, because á
somebody had treated him injustly. As we had an argument, it was á
impossible for me to help him."
"Failure to complete medical course as a result of failing fourth á
year twice."
"I had an appointment with a friend. I promised him to meet with á
him, but at last I did not without having informed him."
"A good friend of mine who is at the moment in a foreign country. á
I didn't write her for several months and now I feel guilty."
"When I told my uncle a false story - that people had stolen the á
books from my room and I demanded money from him.  When he found á
out the truth I was in trouble."
"[ When I break someone's things out of carelessness, or do something  á
to make others feel unhappy  or hurt the self-esteem / self-confidence  á
of others, especially if they happen to be friends or family members.]"
[ No response.]
"This is a kind of confession - my mum found me stealing meat from á
the pot."
"I had a small argument with a relative and some other people got á
implicated.  It resulted in a proper row."
"I was to take a test and I had not made the necessary preparations á
until it was too late.  There were two days to go and I still had á
not done much."
When a close classmate failed a year.
"I ate 12 biscuits one night after tea while watching TV - I don't á
know why."
"When I realized that not all my friends like the comments that I á
pass in their presence."
When I took drugs.
"I was of the opinion that 12.00 pm was too early to be back at á
home after going out, so I stayed away longer, knowing that my á
mother would be worried."
"I was driving a friend's car, and I got close to the pavement to á
ask my way and I struck a parked car."
"I was looking after my cousin's little daughter; she fell down, á
was slightly injured and cried vociferously."
"When I was face to face with my deceived friend after sleeping á
with his wife."
"I was on a visit to friends who have a baby. The baby was crying á
in another room, but soon it became quieter and it seemed that it á
would fall asleep. I went into the room where the baby was lying á
- and it started crying again.
"
"When in grade 3, late home from school every day for weeks á
because of harassment from a grade 7 boy I lied to mother about á
why I was home late."
"I felt guilt towards my mother when I went to live on rooms in á
Nijmegen where I study."
"When I applied for a false travelling claim allowance and later I á
thought that I would be found out."
"I was so excited once that I told my classmate that she was old, á
this hurt her and I felt guilty."
"I was at a boarding school during my primary school days. I was á
broken so I pretended I was very sick. My father came and he á
picked me up. He spent a lot of money on medical expenses which á
all proved to be negative."
"When I became angry at my boyfriend without any reason. I know he á
cannot bear me being angry at him and that he can't study anymore á
then."
Forced to fill in a questionnaire.
When I let a person assume a fault that I committed.
"In an exam I answered the questions rather carelessly and á
afterwards I thought that the exam would have been better had I á
answered more carefully."
[ No response.]
Being catched when stealing.
"My friend came to the concert for my sake as it was me who had á
organized it and the concert was unsuccessful."
"When I shoplifted a pair of earrings from Coles and my Mum caught á
me with them in my bag."
"When I finished a love affair where I was responsible of the sad á
end."
"My schoolmates were teasing a pupil who was not able to defend á
himself very well; I should have taken his part."
"When I argue with my sister.  It feels sometimes that I have the á
upper hand and I use it.  I often argue better and this makes her á
terribly angry."
"I experienced it when I was accepted at the Medical Higher á
Institute."
Being together with my best friend.
"[ I feel a sense of joy whenever I complete a piece of writing á
which is part of my work.  Intense reading also brings me joy.  I á
also feel happy when I reminiscent about them.]"
"After completing high-school, I wanted to go abroad for a á
holiday.  I had never been abroad before and neither had I taken á
a holiday for a long time.  When finally my parents agreed and we á
got the airplane tickets I was over joyed."
[ I can not recall one.]
Having passed an exam.
When I was selected to come here.
I met a friend I had not seen for a long time on the street.
"When I got the scholarship I was very happy as the finacial á
burden of the family was reduced."
When I was complimented and called "delightful".
[ A chat on the telephone with a friend.]
"On my 18th birthday I passed the driving-test. I was glad because á
I had had to study very much, because I had been lucky and á
because - as a proof that it was really difficult - not everybody á
had passed the test."
When I was told that I had passed the exams.
"When I heard my name being announced on the radio that I had been á
successful in an interview for admittance for a medical Assistant á
training course. I was really happy and I enjoyed myself by á
dancing to music from the Radio cassette."
"Realizing one's desire, an experienced feeling of satisfaction á
from the realization of one's desires and aims."
"When I found out that a set task (i.e. 2 essays and a test), the á
thought of which had oppressed me, were not on the date I had á
thought."
"I went to fetch my girl-friend at the station. When the train á
arrived and I saw her descending and running up to me, I felt á
glad."
"This happened when it was finally confirmed that I had stood á
first in the university for the M.A exams.  A few days before the á
official results were declared a clerk had brought the results á
unofficially.  So I had been expecting the results but the "
I received a letter from a distant friend.
"My sister had a daughter. I saw the baby for the first time á
through a pane of glass and she looked at me."
"Some time ago I was present at the wedding party of two close á
friends of mine."
"When I got a letter offering me the Summer job that I had applied á
for.  "
"[ During inter-rail-trip, after troubles, I met my little á
sister.]"
"During lectures, I sensed an unexpressed understanding with a boy á
I did not know.  We exchange glances ; I think he likes me, and I á
like him too.  Perhaps he has fallen in love with me ........."
"I had a singing-lesson, but I was not very good. The last á
exercise was singing scales. I did that very well and my teacher á
seemed satisfied."
"I went to see the entrance examination results at university.  I á
rejoyced at my success."
"My friend came to see me after she had stayed abroad. I waited at á
the station."
"The day I got to know that I would get a shared dwelling with my á
boyfriend.  My parents place was getting a little crowded with á
my growing bother wanting a room to himself.  I first felt doubt, á
then joy, but also sadness.  The feeling of joy was the"
Passing a very difficult examination which I didn't expect - MCE.
When I was selected at TISS X.
"I felt joy most strongly some years ago, when I took part in a á
NH Competition and I was the first."
"I thought that I had failed an examination, but when I was á
informed about the mark, I saw that I had passed it."
"I'm glad when I have good relations with my colleagues and most á
of all when we are at a party."
"When I was 17, I had a mystic vision. I melted into a dazzling á
light, which omitted perfect love. The physical experience became á
unimportant, I heard or saw the words ""overcome egotism"". The á
feeling of joy remained for month after that experience."
"Some time ago a close relative of mine got off cheap with the á
worst."
Scoring a goal in football match.
"I noticed that Meryl Streep and I had similar cheekbones and jaw á
structure."
"I wrote a difficult Exam at one time while in my Secodary School. á
When the results were announced on the radio, I came second out á
of 80 students hence I felt joy."
"[ On days when I feel close to my partner and other friends.  á
When I feel at peace with myself and also experience a close á
contact with people whom I regard greatly.]"
When I passed the grade 7 exam.
"One of my friends and I had breakfast in a restaurant. It was á
spontaneous and lots of fun."
When I had an anticipatory honey-moon with my fiancTe.
When my nephew was born. The birth was hard, it was a big baby.
I found myself a place after looking for one for a long time.
Scoared a goal in a football match.
"When I was in a situation which seemed hopeless for me, I moved á
back to my parents. For my father it went without saying anything á
(normally he ofter grumbles at me)."
"When, for example, I was in my eleventh school year and I learned á
I had been classed for the Bulgarian Language and Literature á
National Olympiad."
"On my birthday a friend came to see me unexpectedly and brought á
me flowers. I usually do not see her very often."
"When you are satisfied with something, when you achieve something á
you have striven to."
"Day before yesterday my mother bought me a new pair of shoes, á
without my having asked for them.  She told me that when she saw á
the pair of shoes she felt like buying them for me.  I really á
liked the shoes and they made me feel that my mother cares f"
"When I heard that I had passed my final examination at school á
(with success)."
"The day I was happiest was the day when I received a phone call á
from Eve's Weekly to inform me that I had won the first prize of á
the All India Essay competition.  I had won this prize when I was á
an under-graduate when even post graduates had partici"
"I was very happy when I discovered that I had passed my first á
year examination and was among the thirty students who would á
major in economics."
"Time had struck 8 o'clock when I heard from the radio that I had á
been selected to Robert Blake Secondary School for Form I. I was á
very happy for the selection. My parents and I were very happy á
and full of joy."
"I bought a Christmas present for my girl-friend. On my way home I á
was really glad about having found such a suitable thing."
"Saw in TV that China had the most gold medals in the Asian á
Olympic."
For instance when a girl is interested in me and likes me.
"On December the 28th I was filled with Joy when I was told by my á
bosses that I had been selected to attend a course at the á
Lilongwe School for Health Scienced in Lilongwe."
Emotional reassurances by spouse.
When I was accepted at UNZA.
"I felt happy when I saw my brother at the bus depot after 3 á
months without seing each other."
"The inflammation of the ear of my child got cured and the doctor á
said that the ear was completely all right."
"I had just moved to the town where I study and I got a postcard á
from a good friend (from my home town)."
"The day I got a letter from the U.G.C informing me that I had á
been awarded the junior research fellowship."
"When I was selected to start Form I at Chilumba Secondary School á
out of the 100 pupils I was among the 4 who were successful. á
Family History showed that I had done better than all my brothers á
who had passed after repeating for several times."
"At the pre-university, I was appreciated as an examplary á
student by our pricipal.  This is something which made me feel á
very happy."
"To be able to prepare myself better for an important examination, á
I did not spend the nitht with my girl-friend but in the á
students' hostel. I had not done that for months. The day when I á
had the examn, somebody knocked at my door at seven o'clock i"
I passed an exam that I was absolutely certain that I had failed.
A night spent with a group of friends.
"I passed my MCE Examination. at first I was worried but when I á
heard my name I had joy in my heart and I arranged for a trip to á
attend a wedding ceremony."
"When I stood first in the B.A exams.  Earlier I had heard of á
these boys and girls who were toppers, but when I first heard of á
me having topped I could not believe it."
"After I had had a disappointment in my private life, my friend, á
who studies in Vienna, came to see me spontaneously."
"Meeting with two of my friends I had not seen for 15 years. They á
were special people to me."
My old friend visited me in the university.
"The day I got a telegram telling me that I had been selected for á
a B.A at UNZA.  I felt happy because I had not expected to be á
selected."
When I got married.
After a long time I saw my boy-friend again. 
I unexpectedly got a present from my father.
"I was happy when at difficult times I could find support in my á
friend and my fiancT, I was happy because of their spiritual and á
moral help which gave me new power to struggle. I was happy then, á
I felt it in my soul."
"While having a discussion with a colleague of mine, I realized that her á
conception of man and work were similar to mine."
Seeing relations from overseas after a few years.
When I won a trip to Greece in a competition.
When I had my first boyfriend.
"I experienced this feeling when I was accepted as a student. á
Because everything turned out different from my expectations. á
Although I passed the exam successfully I was accepted as a á
student only when I didn't expect it at all, namely at the á
begin"
"My boy-friend told me that he would take me to the training of á
the life-saving dogs."
"I experienced joy when I got the results - I had made it to the á
second year."
When I passed my MSCE Exams and was selected to go to college.
"Unexpectedly I met some persons who I like very much. á
Spontaneously they invited me and integrated me within their á
group, although it was late in the evening."
"I met again a very good friend whom I had not seen for a long á
time."
Spontaneous picnic with sister and friend and children - great.
"[ When I have achieved what I wanted to achieve, I feel the above á
stated emotion. Also when I am sucessful.]"
"That was what I felt when I was finally accepted in the Bulgarian á
Conservatorie after I had applied a couple of years."
When I learnt that I was selected for form I.
Meeting an old friend from high school.
"I sensed this feeling when I passed successfully the second tour á
of a competition."
When a student of mine (at music) performed and played remarkably well.
"Joining in a research group studying consumer's behaviour and á
helping the people in the shop with the sales."
"When I succeeded in achieving a scholarship for which I had á
strived hard during a period of financial, personal and physical á
stress."
"The day I got married was the happiest day of my life.  Both of á
us felt that we were right for each other in every way and we had á
no doubts about our compatibility right from the day we got á
engaged."
"When I was admitted to a Language school. On the day when I was á
informed by a message and my parents congratulated me."
"I had not studied very much for my final examination at school, á
so I had to take an additional examination in French. The oral á
examination was not very hard for me - the more I was glad when I á
heard that I had passed it."
After each successfully passed exam I am happy.
"I was filled with joy when I heard that I had been selected for a á
University course."
"The more than satisfactory result of a recently-completed á
university subject was communicated to me by phone."
"When I heard what mark I had got at the entrance examination and á
I realized my admittance to the University was almost certain."
"I felt joy when I heard over the radio that I had been successful á
in my Primary School Leaving Certificate Examination and was á
selected for Secondary School."
"During my first week in Graz I met a girl who I had got to know á
in the train from Amsterdam to Graz. Although I had considered á
her very sympathetic, we had seperated without changing our á
adresses."
At a success of mine, at a real achievement.
"When the results of the part I exams came out I felt tremendous á
joy in my heart.  The results came out after a long period of á
worry and anxiety, so it gave me endless relief and joy."
"I was seriously injured in a road accident. The very first steps á
I took with only one crutch to support me I felt so good. I enjoy á
being alive."
When we got a young dog.
"When my daughter gave her solo dance performance in Poona and á
there was a big applause, I was overjoyed."
"I felt joy when I heard my name being called on the radio as one á
of the students who had passed the interview of Nursing and was á
selected to start Nursing."
"After I had been away for a long time a friend told me that I had á
passed all my written examinations."
When I got a letter from home.
"Last year I went to see friends in Yugoslavia - two girls with á
whom I get along very well."
"When I heard that I had passed Primary School Leaving Certificate á
and was selected to go for Secondary education."
"An encounter with a man whom I love, after a very long á
separation."
"After having at last finished my master's thesis, I felt great á
joy and relief.  I had been haunted by the thesis during the á
whole of my studies."
"On my birthday, when a very close friend sent me a huge bouquet á
of flowers."
"I met a certain lady at Mchesi and I proposed a word of love to á
her and at the same time she accepted my proposal."
"I got a letter from my best friend, whom I had not heard from for á
a long time (a good letter)."
"When the church choir came one Sunday after being away for some á
weeks."
China winning the Asian Olympic.
"When I met my boyfriend and we discovered that we shared the same á
ideals and goals in life, and that we could share all our á
feelings and thoughts and felt that the world's not so bad when á
you have someone really close to share your life with."
"After the term exams I happened to meet a person that I respect á
and of whom I think very highly. It was nice that although we see á
each other rarely he had not forgotten me."
"When I heard that a good friend, who had been abroad for a long á
time, would come and see me."
My boyfriend made me a proposal.
Getting a phone call from a very old friend.
When I met a good friend of mine after a long time.
For the first time in my life telling someone I loved them.
"When I fell in love with ""X"".  Overnight I felt confidence, self-esteem,    á
responsible and worthwhile."
When I passed the driving test after three failures.
"When we took out an 84 year old woman for the evening and had á
hamburgers. She described the evening out as her happiest night á
out in 20 years."
"This happened when I went to check my first year results, I had  á
thought that I would fail and I found that I had a clear pass in á
all my courses."
"I had a quarrel with my fiancT. When he admitted his fault, á
everything was allright. It was then for the first time that he á
surprised me with coffee and cake and a bunch of flowers."
"When I had a psychical crisis, I met a girl, who told me that she á
had had almost the same problems and how she had finally overcome á
them."
My class winning against another class in a football match.
"When I made up with a girl-friend of mine after having been on á
unfriendly terms with her (my fault).  I cried with joy that á
evening."
"I was in a dancing-tavern and the atmosphere was one of waiting á
for the end of the world.  Suddenly people began dancing wildly, á
inspired by the band.  An unbelievable experience : wonderful á
that even Finns sometimes flare up and forget to think ""wh"
"I met my girlfriend on the way and she joyfully welcomed me on á
the way home."
"One night, my boyfriend expressed his love for me in the canteen in á
the presence of my friends by giving me a present."
I received a letter of acceptance from UNZA.
When, after a long time of searching I got my first job.
"As the time to get the results drew near I became more and more á
anxious.  My friend called me and said, "" You have passed.""  My á
heart was full of joy."
"I felt joy when I red my name in the list of the approved in the á
entrance college examination."
Saw on TV China winning the gold medals.
"Can't remember specific event - besides just being moderately á
happy until a year or so ago."
"To have a friend who I didn't see for months, and under the á
circumstances that I met him made me feel happy, and perhaps á
because it has been one of the good things that I learned with á
this friend."
"My son was registered to get admission in grade one of the         á
primary school.  The chances of him getting a place there was 1/10.  á
Two weeks later I was informed that he had been enrolled."
"Sitting alone in a quiet room concentrating on things happening á
around me which pleases me."
The time I first saw my cousin who is living in Tanzania.
"When my mother was tremendous on the phone and we talked for á
hours. She was in a good mood."
When planning to marry.
"When I passed my Primary school leaving certificate and selected á
to go to a Boarding secondary school."
"I felt joyful when I heard that I had been selected for College á
education."
"When I received my TE Score and my acceptance from University - á
it had been a goal since I left the bank a year earlier."
When a person that I like very much got near to me.
"There was joy in me when I heard that I was to take a course as a á
Medical Assistant."
When I got a wedding ring of diamond from the boy I loved.
"In Southern Tyrol, I was gathering apples, it was a fine day, I á
was not thinking about anything, I felt an overwhelming joy."
When I entered University.
"I felt glad to live again when I went to a meeting about the á
""Knowledge"". There are 4 techniques of meditation that connect á
you with the essence of the human being."
"I was at school whhen I received a letter from the dean of my á
school congratulating me for my performance at the previous á
year's exam. "
"When you told everyone in the last lecture you will do all á
lectures again in English and everybody can come (not only á
English classes)"
"I felt it when I received a letter telling that I had been á
classified in a national concourse of p... I felt happy and á
vanity about it."
"When I met again a great friend and talked a little while with á
him. When I see again another I miss."
"When I worked as an ""au-pair-girl"" in London, I received a call á
from a good friend who told me that she was in London too and á
wanted to see me. I was very glad - after that call and á
especially when I saw her."
"A person whom I had not seen for a long time called me and á
invited me for a party."
"It was in December last year that I was chosen to come to this á
Institution to study as a Medical Assistant."
"It was the first time that I gave a birthday present to my friend. á
  She wrote me a letter as she is my girlfriend.  The content of á
the letter was so sweet that it made me feel very happy.á
"
A friend I had missed very much came to see me unexpectedly.
When my child was born.
"I was filled with joy when I heard that I had passed my Secondary á
school leaving certificate exam."
Made a wonderfull new friend.
"When finally I found a place to live, I felt relieved, predicting á
changes in my life, and I became happy."
"When I met a girl and asked her for a date and she agreed, (I á
thought this girl would never like me), this was an emotion of á
joy."
"The time when my sister had her first baby I was so happy and á
joyous because she stayed for two days after marriage before she á
had a child."
When my first child was born.
When I was accepted to study at this school I was very happy.
"A friend of mine that is abroad undertook recently an axam to á
enter on University in Dallas, and was approved."
"The joy came to me when I heard that I was going to start a á
Medical course at the Lilongwe School for Health Sciences."
"I was travelling in the South of Brasil, near the end of the á
year. I was well settled with 3 friends. At the evening of 31 M., á
somebody, also with us, took from his purse pints of all colours, á
and the 4 of us, and other friends, that were at the sam"
"When I received a letter from the university telling me that my á
application had been accepted."
"When my brother was selected to the University of Malawi (the á
Polythecnic). I was very excited and I rejoiced due to one of our á
family members qualifying for University level at long last."
When I pass an examination which I did not think I did well.
"I was selected to come here (University, College) when I was least á
expecting it."
"I was in grade 7.  We had an inter-house volley-ball competition. á
 In Luapula I was the youngest member of the team and I scored  á
the winning goal using my head.  I jumped up with joy and fell á
down."
"When my brothers had passed all of their exams and were able to  á
graduate from their courses."
Getting a part-time job.
A boy I had been admiring so much asked me to go out with him.
"I most joyous moment was the day I got my marks.  I was very á
happy when I came to know about my marks at the M.Sc (part I) á
examination where I got 71.5%.  This was the highest marks I have á
ever scored in my life."
"When I was told that I was selected to attend Medical Assistant á
Training."
When I knew about my first job.
"When I opened my TE Score envelope, and saw I got into á
Physiotherapy."
My boyfriend returned after a long absence.
"The way this particular girl spoke, behaved, and reacted the á
first time I was introduced to her, I felt certain that something á
between us would materialize."
"When my last year's second semester results came through - I was á
ecstatic."
"I received money from my father at a time when I was completely á
broken."
"I made the college entrance examinations for P.U.C. It was what I á
wanted more. When the first list came out I got frustrated. I á
wasn't in. When the second list came out without hopes I started á
to read the newspaper and my name was thre. I was in the"
Good news about a sick relative.
When I met my girlfriend - I had not counted on that.
"When Wayne and Sue (close friends) were announced our guardians á
at ther wedding."
"On holidays - just driving along a road beautiful scenery. Just á
with my boyfriend - not really talking but just feeling á
overwhelmed."
"When I was accepted for my third year (G-10) at my former á
secondary school."
When I passed standard 8 exams I jumped, rolled over the ground.
"When my present boyfriend asked me initially to go out with him I á
had waited a long time for this to occur."
"I was emotionally happy when I was in love with the girl I had á
longed for."
"When I met a good friend after a long time. We had had a quarrel á
but after two weeks I was really glad to see him again."
"My father stayed abroad for one year. He does not like to write á
letters because he makes ortographic mistakes. I never had a good á
relation to him. He wrote me a letter in which he said that he á
loved me."
"When I was in Form 4, at Secondary School, I was elected as a á
school Library Assistant and also the leader of Catholic á
Students, so I felt very joyous."
"When I saw my brother in Church, and publically accept Jesus á
Christ as his saviour and Lord."
"It was when a friend took me to a place and gave me as a gift my á
astrologycal map with the explanations of a psychologist."
"After sitting for the Standard 8 Exams for the second time in á
1979, I had great joy when I heard that I was successful in the á
Examination when the results were out."
"In a day when at work, in school, and relationships came out as I á
wanted, and I was recognized in my work."
"After passing my Malawi Certificate of Education Exam and being á
selected to Kamuzu College of Nursing."
"The day I received the key of my apartment and we could enter in á
it, for my fiancT and I had bought it yet in plans, and it seemed á
to us that this was almost impossible to happen."
"At a choral concert I appeared as a solist. The concert5 was very á
good, I forgot all the hard work that had been done before. There á
remained only an undescribable joy and a feeling of warmth, á
security etc."
"It was in 1983 September when MCE results were being announced on á
the radio. When I heard my name that I had done well I just kept á
quiet. I was so happy that I couldn't even talk."
When I got the first compound through column.
When I had my children.
"When I heard that someone who is very close to me did very well á
in the exams despite having fooled around a lot."
"When I finished my exams after 12th Grade, I was worried about á
getting a T.E. Score high enough for Physiotherapy. When I found á
that I had been accepted I was ecstatic, or more appropriately, á
could jump for joy."
"I have a girlfriend, who is almost like a daughter to me.  She is á
studying out of station and I get to see her only once a year.  á
Her arrival is always a joyous one."
"I went shopping with my parents - my father payed everything for á
me, I was very glad."
Winning Queensland Chess Championship.
"I have a boyfriend and I am very fond of him. When we had our á
""11-months jubilee"", I had forgotten it. But he gave me a red á
rose."
"Two years ago, somebody I like very much wanted to give up his á
studies. I tried to make him understand the importance of what he á
was going to do, not only of the difficulty to find a job but also á
because he will decrease his culture etc. This person"
When I was selected to start Form I at Malosa Secondary school.
"This happened a year when I was having a hard time, I got á
admission to do research despite obstacles in the procedure of admission."
"After a weekend at a seminar I saw my husband again. I hurried á
home hoping he would be there. We embraced - I enjoyed feeling á
his body."
My admittance to the University.
"I was joyful when I received a present (2 books and a pencil) á
from the headmaster in standard 6 because I had passed, I became á
No 1 and he said I was one of the pupils who had good behaviour."
"I had the unexpected possibility to see a friend I like very á
much."
Passing an exam I did not expect to pass.
"Joy of giving birth, and of sharing that joy with my husband. á
Moments of complete happiness and feelings of so much love."
"When I was a child, my beloved cat gave birth to four beautiful á
little kittens. Before she had them, she came up to me and I á
followed her out, then witnessed them being born."
When I passed the TOEFEL with very good marks.
"When I achieved my first 6 at University after a long string of á
3's, 4's and 5's (7 is the highest mark awarded, 3 is a conceded á
pass)."
"The weekend after I argued with my parents I went home again and á
they couldn't have been nicer. As soon as I walked in, Mum kissed á
me, then Dad, and thanked me for the birthday presents I'd left á
for him, including a very sentimental birthday card."
My first kiss.
"When I got admission in M.Sc (I) Organic Chemistry, I was very á
happy."
"When I heard that I had passed my MCE Exam, I spent the whole á
day dancing and eating sugarcanes from our garden."
"Seeing a close friend who had just returned from twelve months á
overseas."
"I was very joyful when I heard that I had passed the standard 8 á
exams. The day I heard the news was the day I celebrated my á
birthday."
"Receiving a very personal letter from a lady that I like, which á
revealed that she was more enthusiastic about me than I had á
thought possible."
"The moment I got the news that I had been selected for the U.G.C á
junior national research fellowship.  It was a dream come true."
"One day I did not feel very well and I wanted to talk to á
somebody. A friend invited me for dinner and I was very glad."
Being in love for the first time.
"Receiving notification that I had made a successful application á
to the Speech Therapy course at Uni, gave me a very good feelig á
of achievment and joy."
"It was about a fortnight ago, I was declared successful in the á
U.G.C exam this year (only four in Bombay succeeded).  My joy á
knew no bounds."
"When my brother came back home after staying in hospital. He had á
undergone an operation which had been a matter of life or death. á
When he came home I could see him smile for the first time after á
may weeks."
When I was successful at my work I was full of joy.
"I received a letter and a Christmas present from a person I had á
not seen for two years."
When I met a friend that I hadn't seen for some time.
"I went to buy a bicycle with my father. When I wanted to pay, my á
father took his purse and payed."
"On our way to France, my girlfriend and I went to Verona. By á
chance we met an Italian couple - they gave us two tickets for á
the dress-rehearsal of ""Aida"". It was a different world for us á
full of fascination. After the representation we ate a phantas"
"I felt this emotion when my name was announced on the radio that á
I had been selected to come to Lilongwe School for Health á
Sciences to take a training course as a Medical Assistat."
"When I began to date a boy with whom I am till now. This was 16 á
months ago."
"I felt happy when my mother borrowed me the car in order to let á
me go out alone for the first time."
Being chosen to do your experiment with aphasia.
When I entered at the University.
"When my boyfriend came form Rumphi to Lilongwe for a visit I was á
very happy to see him and couldn't believe it was him with me."
"When I took my entrance exams successfully and also when I got my á
school leaving certificate because the delivering ceremony was á
extremely official."
Always when I am well succeded.
"After a one year's stay abroad, I returned home. I was even more á
glad to see how much my family was pleased to see me."
"When there was a possibility of getting on better in professional á
life. I valorized very much this aspect. People showed me this á
possibility, not the real fact (even because until now ...)"
Winning a game after a long time of losing.
"Before Christmas I got to know a girl but our relationshop could á
not consolidate before the holiday. Therefore it was a big á
surprise to get a carefully hand-made present from her. - Our á
relationship grew closer."
"When I was at school, no one thought I could pass my MCE so at á
the end of the year my name was announced on the radio that I had á
passed. I was the happiest person."
When I asked my girlfriend to marry me.
When my brother bought me a nice pair of shoes from South Africa.
"When I received the best actor award at the inter-college drama á
competition.  It gave me tremendous joy and satisfaction which á
lasted for several days."
"After a long time (of no communication with him, physical á
illness and worry) my lover came to see me, when I least expected á
to see him."
My being admitted to UNZA.
I was admitted to the University and a niece was born to me.
"When in the end of a semester I got the approval in a matter that á
I judged very difficult."
"When I got my first unknown compound while doing my M.Sc á
research, I was very happy.  This is because my research was based á
on this type of reactions and compounds."
After 3 weeks I saw my girlfriend again.
A party with friends on New Year's Eve.
"I was in ILHA GRANDE with a wonderful sun, with wonderful people, á
with a wonderful sea, with a wonderful boy."
"The situation in which I felt happiest in my life was when á
I was with the person I love for the first time."
"Found out that me and my best friend are both chosen for the á
English lectures."
When I was admitted to the Sofia University.
"I was happy to hear that my sister had won a prize at running á
competition."
I had a picnic with old classmates, we chatted and played games.
"When I heard that I had passed my end of first year exams and I á
was ready to enter 2nd year because I felt I had failed as they were á
very hard."
"When I got through the examination for my driver licence, and á
when I finished I knew I had passed it."
"When I was informed that a short story I had written had been á
accepted for publication."
When I got a small present form a person I like very much.
When I passed my form three exams.
"I had an interview for entry into college. The results were to be á
announced on radio. After a long period of waiting the results á
were released. I had succeded - tension was relieved by joy."
"When two female classmates and I were having lunch, we chatted and  á
cracked jokes, I was very happy.  However, I felt that I may have  á
said something inappropriate which might cause them to have a bad  á
impression of me."
A close married friend has just had his first child.
"My joy knew no bounds when I was selected for a job even before á
having finished my studies."
"After my vacations, one day after a lecture it occured to me to á
buy a rose for my mother.  We went together to a pub and my á
mother told me that she would be getting married next Spring.  I á
did not known about it and so was all the more glad."
"When I got a stereo walkman from my father when he had finacial á
difficulties. I thought that although he promised to give me that á
present, he was not obliged to do so."
"A very good friend of mine had been away for three months. When á
we met again, we ran up to each other and embraced."
The time I qualified to enter secondary school.
"When a girl I wanted very much, said ""yes"" and fell in love with  á
me."
Having received an offer to do post-graduate work.
"When I passed the whole weekend with my boyfriend, coming back á
home on Sunday afternoon he met my parents for the first time."
[ I am joyfull to be alive every night.]
Family member survived an operation.
"When my red-cheeked, content child runs to meet me in the yard of á
the kindergarten and gives me a moist kiss on my cheek."
"It was August 30th when I heard on the radio that I passed my á
M.C.E. exams and I was really happy and joyous because of the á
event."
"I was in the living room at home with an ex-boyfriend, it was á
nearly a year that we had separated, during the talk he began to á
remember our courting and gave me a long kiss."
"When I get something that seemed very hard like getting a job, a á
boyfriend, etc. A specific sutuations, was when I started to date á
a boy whom I liked for a long time."
You told me psychology can help people to be happier.
Discussing psychology with my friends before the lecture.
"Coming to this lecture and listen to you talking about feelings, á
I am so happy that foreigners have the same feelings as Chinese."
"I felt joy when I came to know Christ.  That is when I became a á
Christian."
"When I met my girlfriend again in another town after a long á
separation."
When I bought my car.
"I felt happy at the end of a 10 day student camp.  We had shared á
our hopes and aspirations and in the open situation so generated, we á
had made strong frienships and experienced our own worth as well. á
 "
When, after a long time, I saw a girl with whom I was in love.
"Winning a tight tennis match. One set to play, and the team was á
behind by 3 games. We won the last set 6-2 and won the match by a á
game."
"One of the greatest joiy was when I succeded in acquiring a á
motorcycle through my own efforts."
"I was given a gift by my sister. There were many pleasant things á
in this parcel."
"This emotion happened when I passed my primary school examination á
and was selected for Secondary School."
My sister gave birth to twins, healthy ones.
"In August,1983, the long awaited ""big envelope"" (a document for á
C.U.H.K admission) arrived.  It was in the afternoon and I had á
not been doing anything.  When the postman, with his big bag, á
knocked on the door I knew what it was about.  I hurriedly á"
"I found a human ""treasure"" that I desired and got immediately. I á
didn't think about anything. When I touched him I imploded but I á
am whole."
When India first won the world cup cricket tournament.
"On my birthday, an old friend of mine sent me a card. I had not á
met him for a year and I was very glad that he had thought of me."
"I had been away from home for a long time and when I came home I á
was delighted.  It was wonderful to see familiar, dear people and á
I was rejoycing in advance.  I had been feeling very lonely."
When I was sick my husband bought me a piece of cake.
The birth of my daughter.
When I saw my family after a separation of one year.
I got a present from a great friend (a dog).
"When India won the Prudential cup by beating West-Indies in the á
final match and became the world cricket champion.  West-Indies á
was the strongest of the eight countries which participated in á
the competition."
My friend told me he really likes me.
Passed an exam by 2 points.
Blank.
"That was soon after the results of the interview which nearly á
9,000 people attended in all the three regions of Malawi. My joy á
came after hearing on the radio that I was one of the people á
selected to undergo the Medical Assistant training at the á
L"
"On a sailing boat at night, under a full moon, listening to Pink á
Floyd, drinking good wine, with good company, the boat being á
steered by autopilot, and a full eclipse of the moon."
When I made the acquaintance of a certain person.
"When I was appointed by the Ministry of health to join the á
teaching staff of one of the medical colleges."
"On New Year's Eve I went in a disco with friends. I amused myself á
and got to know many other people."
"Inter-national sports events won by my favourite national team or á
player brings me joy, e.g when India won the World cup cricket á
match."
"My current lover and I had been very busy with work and study and á
had not had time alone together for almost a month until one á
afternoon recently when we made love for hours and then showered á
and ate together."
When I was admitted to the Bulgarian State Conservatoire.
When I received a beautiful birthday gift form my parents.
A good report card (a scholarship) in primary school.
I have a new born child.
When I can see my parents because now I am far from them.
"I felt happy at the settlement of our marriage, even though we á
are from different socio-linguistic backgrounds our parents á
agreed to the wedding without any conflict or discussion.  We had  á
thought that they would object to the wedding but it did no"
"Several days after my final examination at school, I was sitting á
in an airplane on my way to Greece. I enjoyed that moment very á
much."
Always when I meet the person I love.
"When I was a student at the Institute doing my M.Phil degree, one á
of my professors called me before the convocation and told me á
""You have got the gold-medal (first rank) in the university and á
tomorrow you will be on T.V""."
"It was when I was allowed to take my wife away from her parents á
after being refused for three times on grounds that she should á
first write her examination."
I'd just got the top mark in an exam.
My parents came to visit me.
When I entered in the University after a year of struggles.
"On my birthday I got a present that I had desired for a long á
time."
"I had stayed for months without seeing mother because our á
holidays were short and my home is far. Some times, mother came to á
see me at school, I was very joyful, and I didn't want her to go."
"When my boyfriend last told me he loved me after I gave him an á
impulsive kiss."
"I was in a restaurant with my boyfriend when I saw my best female á
friend after not seeing her for two weeks.  We rejoyced, hugged á
and had a long talk."
"When I thought that my high school love and I had a mutual á
emotion."
"A friend of mine travelled very far. I miss her but feel joy too á
because fer life is taking the right direction as she wants. So I á
feel joy for her mainly."
When I met my mother after months of absence.
"This came in when at one time I met a girl who I didn't expect to á
fall in love with me. Fortunately I tried my luck and she accepted á
my proposal. At the same time she was giving me a lot of money á
which was just like a miracle to me."
"When I went to a job interview, I met a person who was very nice, á
and his attitude made me glad."
The joy came when I first proposed a girl at Secondary School.
"My neighbour was not able to set his car in motion because it had á
snowed heavily. I helped him - he was thankful and invited me."
"I felt a great joy when I knew that my father was going to sell á
the apartment from GUARUSA, because in some way we were helded by á
it, that means that we didn't go to any other place, because we á
had the apartment."
"After having finished my B.Sc, I was struggling hard to continue á
my studies and had taken the M.SC exam.  I was not sure that I á
would be selected in the written exam.  When I saw my name in the á
selected candidates list I was overjoyed."
"When I succeed in writing something I felt and doing it I felt á
well and very happy for being able to express to myself something á
that was suffocating me."
"I got a good reaction from my tutor and tutorial group for a á
presentation I'd given that I was very worried about."
"I wanted to go out to walk but I didn't know either where or á
with whom, suddenly an invitation appeared."
"I was filled with joy when I heard that I had been selected to á
come here at Kamuzu College of Nursing."
"After one year of searching, my friend and I have found a flat we á
are able to pay for."
"Arriving in New Zealand as a teenager - first overseas trip - á
something ""exhilarating"" about the change of scenery etc."
"Getting a good mark for a subject I had worked hard at but á
expected only a moderate mark."
Article published in the college newspaper.
When I passed the 12th standard board exams.
"After my final examination at school I was glad that the á
examination was over and that I had passed it."
"Eating biscuits and drinking Milo (Chocolate energy drink made á
with milk and usually drunk warm) with my friend at College. We á
get on really well, don't withold any feelings about each other's á
friends and are pretty good at cheering each other up wh"
"When I discovered that I and my friend would be licensed at the á
first call. This emotion was accompanied by a great relief. It á
was the coronation of a year of sacrifice and extrene discipline."
"Found money on the road and returned it to the owner through á
police."
"When my uncle gave me my first year's results.  I opened the á
envelope and my eyes ran into two ""B+"" - in EC110 and M160, this á
meant that I had qualified for a major in economics."
"I felt joy when I passed my Malawi School Certificate of á
Education."
"This happened when I was selected to go to Secondary school to á
start Form I in October 1980."
When I saw a person I had not seen for a long time.
"It was when I was selected to go to a Secondary school to start á
form I."
"This was when the girl I was in love with accepted my proposal á
and everything went smoothly, just as I had wanted it to.  It was á
contrary to my previous feelings of uncertainty about her á
response."
When I realized that I loved someone of the opposite sex.
Accepted by the college football team.
"When I heard that a close relative of mine had given birth at a á
very young age, in a very remote area and had had very few problems."
"When my father married a certain lady. The reception was held at á
Kasungu town Hall."
Got through first semester University.
When my father bought me a suit.
"In order to be admitted to my final examination, I had to pass á
two examinations. As I had not studied very much, I resigned á
myself to be left behind. Nevertheless I succeeded in these á
examinations."
"My girlfriend who had been very far away from me came to my á
place. She saw me and ran after me. I didn't know that she had á
come. I couldn't see her. She held my shoulders standing behind á
me."
"The time I learnt that I had passed my Malawi School leaving á
Certificate Examinations."
"I had a friend who I didn't see for a long time. We had a á
relationship from much union and interaction. It was more that á
one year that I didn't see her. She appeared in my home and we á
talked."
"I was doing an experiment and was not getting the appropriate á
result despite the fact that I had repeated the procedure 4-5 á
times.  Then finally I got it right by a stroke of luck."
"When I received the results from my final examination - Higher á
School Certificate - and received a mark that was beyond my á
wildest expectations."
"I won a car in a prize-competition. The moment I was informed á
about it, I felt joy."
When I got a record as a gift from a friend.
"Day I received my T.E. score and acceptance into my chosen course. á
"
"When I saw my name in the newspaper and I knew that I entered at á
the University."
"Going to a friend's wedding and seeing many of my old friends á
whom I had known before I moved to a new district five years á
previously."
I felt joy when I entered at the University.
Got a present from my friend for my birthday.
When I was accepted for a course on finance and accounting.
"After being away on a holiday for 2 months, a friend, who lived á
interstate, had remembered when I'd get back and phoned to á
welcome me home on the night of my arrival."
"The day that my boyfriend appeared at home with a pair of rings á
for our wedding."
When I got my B.Sc degree with first class.
"In the army, my result at the shooting exercises got á
me a three day furlough."
"I didn't like my former fob and felt joy when I received a á
telegram offering me a new one that I though better and for which á
I had been waiting."
"The day I was told that I had passed my Malawi School leaving á
Exams and I was selected to go to college."
When I received my promotion letter.
When people remember us and shows interest about what we do.
When I heard that I had achieved a place in form I.
"This is one feeling I never betray, but I must confess that the á
last time I slighty felt happy was when I passed my M.A with a á
high rank.  This was a few years ago when my friend told me about á
the result."
"A friend of mine often had difficulties with her parents. Once á
she had a child she had a better relationship with them."
"While watching an entertainment program in which there was a clever  á
and amusing sketch."
I got better marks in the examn than many arrogant people.
Getting back with my boyfriend after a year away - apart.
When I passed my final examination at school.
"After making an effort to enter at University I found a course á
and a school of higher education which were compatible with my á
experience and potentiality."
"After my girlfriend had taken her exam we went to her parent's á
place."
I passed an exam which I thought I had failed.
"For about one year I had a rather bad relation with my father. á
Last Christmas Eve he invited me to stay withhim and I was very á
glad about it. It was a fine evening."
"A meeting with the family and the friends I felt dear and loved, á
sharing the gladness of being together at a birthday."
When I had passed MCE examinations.
Helping in the nursery school.
"After my graduation exams I was waiting to get admitted to a post á
graduation course, however the situation was not very favourable á
for me and I was upset.  Suddenly, Bombay university offered me a á
seat and I landed up in Bombay for my post graduatio"
"My friend took me to Civo Stadium to watch and listen to the á
music of the International singer Sam Mangwana. I had no hope of á
going there since I had no money so he gave me the money for á
admission."
"When I won the ""Under 18"" Showjumping at the Brookfield Show. The á
competition was very stiff and there were many riders competing."
When I got my B.A degree with first class.
When I married my wife and took her home for the first time.
"I felt joy when I passed the worst phase in my life and á
discovered how many people considered me important to them."
"My girlfriend wrote to me telling me that she was four months á
pregnant and that I was responsible for the ""damages"".  This made á
me happy as I longed to have a child to call mine."
"I had a little cat which was very sick. As I liked it very much I á
went to a veterinary with it. He told me how to tend it and it á
really recovered its health. Everybody said that I had saved its á
life."
"I was captain of the school swimming team. The team was only two á
points in front before the last relay. We won the relay, which I á
swam in, and thus my team won the championship."
"This happened when I was in the 10th standard.  The paddy crops á
were in a bad shape as it had not rained and there was no water á
in the well, so I was in a very sad mood.  I came to the á
conclusion that I would ignore the paddy field, just 12 hours á
"
"When my favourite football team made a goal and was about to á
win the Cup of England."
When I was in the sauna bath.
"My 21st birthday celebration, when I cut the cake and received á
the presents."
I went to visit friends and it was very companionable.
Passing an examination, although I felt sure I had failed.
When I got engaged to a boy of my choice.
When I had a good result in the certificate examination.
The day I learnt that I had been admitted to the university.
When my parents complimented me very nicely on something.
"When I realised that I was forgiven by the God who is there, when á
I realised how much God loves me and that my acceptance with him á
is not based on my performance - that he loves me unconditionally á
and showed that love in Christ who died because I do"
"""Boy, you have been admitted to the medicine school and your á
uncle is coming back fron Canada next week,"" my father told me á
and it was a happy moment."
"I was going to my village, after having been rather oppressed in á
Madrid. "
"When I was with the girl I love very much, for the graduatiion á
ball."
"I received a wedding invitation from an ex-flatmate, enclosed was á
a small note that overcame a lot of the differences that had á
arisen between us due to the circumstances in which she left the á
flat."
On meeting an old friend of mine.
When I passed my B.A exams.
"Unexpected visit by a close friend, whom I hadn't seen for half a á
year."
When I heard that I had been selected for the university.
Yesterday my friend gave me a gift and had dinner with me.
"Walking along the beach with a friend (another girl), talking, á
picking up shells, laughing, chasing seagulls."
A recurrent lovesickness.
"A few weeks back I received a Christmas card from a friend in á
England.  She had not written to me in a very long time but it     á
showed that she still remembered me."
In summer when I was sailing with friends in Greece I felt joy.
When I passed a very important exam.
When my application for studying the masters degree was accepted. 
Going to Chico to visit a friend.
"I won the first prize at the science fair, the first of the kind á
at school and I was only in form II then.  "
I had a very pleasant conversation with one of my friends.
"A fellow player, quite unexpectedly, scores a goal, which means a á
draw."
When I fell in love.
"When my sister - after a history of one abortion and one á
stillbirth - gave birth to a perfectly healty boy."
Reading a nice book and talking about it to my friend.
Being asked to go out by someone I care. 
"When my boyfriend once again told me that he loved me after a á
period in which he felt very depressive."
"During my Summer vacations I planned a carnival for the community á
youth center with a few other volunteers.  I was the head of the á
organizors and we spent over a month planning it.  During this á
period we got to know and understood each other.  We á
"
"I met my present boyfriend on a boat trip to England.  We had á
said that we would call each other when we got back to Sweden (we á
were not going to the same town in England).  As soon as I walked á
in he called from England as he could not wait till he "
Getting into this university to do medicine.
When I got a good grade for an exam in statistics.
When I attended the concert of a pop singer.
When my love for a guy was returned.
When I passed and qualified for the university.
Doing well in the examn.
"Last Summer I achieved someting that I had been wanting for a á
long time."
"This week I was phoned by an old friend with whom I lost contact á
a few years ago."
When I called my boyfriend he asked me if I would live with him.
Being chosen to do this experiment.
"I thought that someone was angry with me but, by hindsight, that á
didn't appear to be the case, he even liked me."
"I preached to a F.3 students in a gospel camp.  They thus knew á
more about God and made up their minds to believe in Jesus."
"A meeting and a conversation with a woman (somewhat elder than á
me) who considers me as her child (she also has one child of her á
own). Last two years I lived with her (no relationship)."
When I was selected for higher education, i.e grade 7 to formI.
"When I passed the driving test already on the first try, although á
I felt more and more uncertain as the day came near."
"I went on a picnic to the country side park.  The beautiful á
scenary made me feel relaxed and every worry disappeared , thus á
the picnic was worthwhile."
When I won the best prize in the National science fair.
"After having considered it for hours I was able to overcome my á
scruples and to call a friend with whom I had fallen in love. I á
realized that my decision was right - and was very glad."
I was called and invited to have a talk about a job I wanted to have.
When a friend of me came for an unexpected visit.
When I learnt that I had been accepted at the medical school.
"I feel unbelievably happy about the relationship between my á
boyfriend and me, it is a reoccurring feeling."
"After I saw my family and good friends back after staying one á
year in a foreign country. "
I was accepted by the Chinese university.
"When I go out with my friend with enough money and good sense to á
our favorite dancing."
"When I heard the examination results and when I recovered after á
having been sick for a week."
[ No response.]
When I was selected to the university of Zambia.
[ No response.]
The birth of my child.
"Our only elder sister got married and started having pains in her á
abdomen and she was told that she could not have children. To our á
suprise she had a baby 2 months back."
"When it appeared that I was not pregnant when I was several weeks á
overtime."
When I met friends I had not seen for the last 2-4 years.
[ No response.]
"I felt joy when I heard that I was accepted for the Free á
University in Driebergen."
"When I heard that I had been selected fot the first year at the á
university of Zambia.  This was after my form five at Chikola á
secondary school."
"When I passed the driving test three weeks ago and got my á
licence."
"Last course, when I passed with good marks three subjects which I had á
previously failed."
"When my boyfriend and I went out for a dinner and subsequently á
went to his family. We had a very nice evening."
"When I was accepted into the medical school.  Medicine is a á
profession that I have desired ever since my childhood."
"When I made the winning goal during a very important football á
game."
"When I came again in contact with a girl I liked very much. And á
most important she also liked me."
"When I received a letter from a woman I thought had not ever á
cared for me.  This was when I needed her and I was overjoyed to á
learn that it was me who was delaying things."
"During the period of falling in love, each time that we met and á
especially when we had not met for a long time."
"A person with whom I had been on bad terms, gave me a present. We á
became reconciled."
"It was Saturday, my duties were over for a few hours and I could á
at last be with the people I wanted to see."
"My sister and brother in law returned from Sri Lanka where they á
adopted a child. I went to pick them up at the airport."
"When the Cambridge results came out and I obtained a first á
division.  I had been thinking that I had not done very well."
When I first heard "I like you !" from my boyfriend.
When I got my drivers licence.
When I qualified for form I.
"Every year during carnival I am very joyful I have an intense á
feeling of happiness then."
I was very happy when I got an attractive Summer job.
"In the underground's escalator, a youngish bum asked me for á
money.  Although I did not give him anything, the fellow told me á
that I was really good-looking.  A man who was in front of me á
also turned to look at me."
"When I was accepted as a student of Psychology here at á
Gutttenburg."
When I heard that I had passed the second year exams.
"When an old schoolfriend phoned me to arrange an appointment to á
talk about old memories. I hadn't seen him for 8 years."
"During the Christmas holidays, I met some of my old friends, á
after not having seen them for six months."
"When I was accepted as a student at the college, not having á
thought it possible."
"Occurs frequently. A recent experience: when going out with many á
friends, nice music, after the examinations, I felt so happy I á
could have embraced everybody."
"When I was offered a place in the university as a full time á
student."
"When I learnt that I could do further studies at the Chinese á
university."
"I fell over head and ears in love with someone who appeared to be á
in love with me. it made me so happy that I could hardly sleep á
and eat for one week."
[ When my performance (homework or other work) is better than others.]
"One evening, I was with a group of friends having a talk.  There á
was a very trustful and joyful atmosphere."
"When I read the newspaper that morning I found my candidature á
number on the admission list of the Chinese university.  I was á
satisfied and happy and the cumulative anxiety disappeared.  I á
only wanted to cry out that I had succeeded."
Did very, very well on a Physics midterm.
Going to a concert.
Being elected as class leader.
"Getting University Entrance accredited and arriving home from á
boarding school on accrediting leave."
"At a party in which I met an interesting female. We enjoyed á
eachothers company, while slow dacing."
The birth of my first child.
When my special friend said "I love you" for the first time.
"The final marks were to be given in the morning.  I wanted to get á
there late because I was very afraid.  When I arrived there, á
everybody was very happy and I had also passed.  We had a á
wonderful time all day long."
When I won my car. 
"I was biking with my boyfriend, the sun shining after a long á
period of bad beather, afterwards we spent the evening and night á
together."
Getting into this university to do medicine.
I received an assignment back, and got an A+ grading.
When passing the final examinations for social worker.
"Last year my freshman yr. It was a day in March I did well on á
some tests. I seemed to finally adjust to college, it was hot and á
sunny. I was walking in front of a frat. when I heard Beach Boys á
""Surfin'USA"". I had this overwhelming feeling that to be"
"A friend came to tell me that her father invited me to go on á
holiday with them in Benidorm otherwise I could not afford to go á
on holiday."
"When I finally managed to get a specific sound from my guitar, á
after baving tried for a long time."
"At the moment when I heard the result of an examination and it á
proved that I succeeded the second year of my study."
Finished a difficult midterm.
Success in university entrance examination.
"I can't give one description here. I often feel joyful when I á
have done things good in relation to other people especially when á
my friend says he loves me and I also tell him that I love him."
"I was in hospital, and then was visited by someone quite á
unexpected."
When my boyfriend came back after being away for 10 days.
I asked someone to go out and she accepted right away.
"When my father managed to begin a ""new life"" after the divorce á
from my mother; resulting in a new little sister for me."
When my children were born.
I was "best man" at my brother's wedding a year ago.
Hear my name on the list attending the English lectures.
"Winning a race that I had been training for, for many weeks. á
(Running Race)."
When the person that I was very fond of, returned to me.
Finding out my grades at the end of my freshman year.
"Listening to the opening bars of Tchaikovsdy's symphony No.2 á
fourth movement at my sister's wedding."
"When my fiancee travelled 2000 Km to visit me, and I hadn't seen á
her for 4 months."
"Seeing my sister after about 2 years of not seeing her. Only á
spent 1 hour or so before she was off overseas with her husband á
for 3 months."
"I received an unexpected B+ on an engineering midterm. I did not á
study nearly as much as I should have and it was a difficult á
test."
Talking with someone I admire a lot.
Having a good trip on a boat with good friends.
When my term paper was evaluated.
A friend which I hadn't seen for years, sent me a small present.
Doing well in an examn.
My last genetices midterm - a decent grade.
Hearing my girlfriend accept my offer of marriage.
"Receiving a much wanted letter from a very good friend who lives á
abroad."
Someone (a boy) paid special attention to me.
Going to see a good film with my best friend.
When I found out I had passed all of my university exams.
When I won some coins in a small competion.
Got in touch with earlier friends after a long absence.
"When I received my U.E. accredited as I was totally unexpecting á
it and I was so happy."
"New year's eve 1983/1984, I met my girlfriend.  We stood on the á
steps outside her parents home and I kissed her for the á
first time."
On holiday, seeing the lanscape in Gerona.
After intercourse.
Made a wonderful driend who understands me.
"When the parents of my girlfriend gave permission to spend our á
holiday together."
"After I had made my debut at Ullevi against IFK, Gottenburg and á
got a good write up in the paper."
When I passed the driving test (on the second try).
When my boyfriend and I made up.
"When I started a relation with a girl, with whom I have fallen in á
love already some time ago."
Watching China winning the Asian Olympic games.
"When I was notified that I had been accepted as a Psychology á
student."
"I felt very happy when I heard I had passed the examination to á
move up to the second year course."
Got a big fish in fishing.
"When I was making music together with my friend. It sounded very á
good and we were very satisfied."
"I liked to see off my aunt (from Zaire) to the airport. That á
appeared to be impossible because I had to go to school. For long á
time I wasn't sure if I could accompany her. Two days before the á
departure they told me I was allowed to miss school."
"When I passed the university entrance exam.  I had thus finished á
with a difficult period of my life and I was about to begin one á
which I had desired a lot."
"When I got myself the kind of girlfriend I had been hunting for a á
long time."
Watching the Asian Olympic game (China winning).
"When I had to undergo the final examination of secondary school, á
I lived together with a girlfriend. We both were afraid to fail, á
but it appeard that we both had passed."
I made dinner for some friends and they appreciated it very much.
Passing my driver's examination (after two failures).
"When my brother was born, everything went all right.  It had been á
very likely that he would have a deficiency (my sister suffers á
from Down's Syndrome) and that my mother would be in danger."
Good dinner on the National Day.
"When a friend of mine had her period, while thinking she was á
pregnant."
Getting a letter from a friend who did not write for a long time.
"I had a very close friend who went to Canada after her F.B, his  á
departure was unavoidable.  When he came back during the Summer á
holidays I was very happy as nothing had changed between us."
Talking with a nice girl.
When I won the first prize in a cross country race.
"Spending the nitht with close friends, after being away (out of á
Nijmegen) for a while."
"Went to a movie with a date, walked on the beach (in Alameda) á
spent some time afterwards in her apt."
"At an important moment in a volleyball game we made a point and á
by this we won a set from a much stronger competitor."
On my birthday, when I was given my presents.
When I was admitted to a certain school as a student.
"I got an A in anatomy - the first one I have ever gotten in a á
science class here."
"When the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the final á
of the Europe Cup at Athens."
Had a letter from my father (usually he does not write to me).
When I got the loan for my studies.
The day I finished my military service.
"As an evening class teacher I got positive feedback.  When the á
atmosphere is good and a kind of relaxed understanding exists."
When I was able to buy my new car, after lots of problems.
"During the summer I received grade cards from my TA's. I expected á
a B no better in Computer Science. I looked at the card - I got an á
A - I was ecstatic."
"When high level results were declared, I found my candidature á
number.  I was very happy as I had not expected it.  As I had been  á
injured before the examination and I had performed poorly."
"Achieving my goal at a swim meet. I worked toward the goal for 9 á
yrs. I was capable of achieving it, but I didn't know when."
"When a close friend met me at the station in the middle of the á
night, when I came back from a long and tiring journey."
When I passed the last exam, which I had doudts about.
Finding out my name on the list for English lectures.
"When I was back home after a long time, meeting beloved people á
and close friends."
"When on holiday in Greece I called my best friend, she told me á
she passed the examinations and that she had been admitted to the á
study for speech therapy."
When seeing a friend that I had not seen in a long while.
"When I was accepted as supervisor for a student teacher.  The á
notification came by post."
"It appeared that I gave correct answers to all questions during á
an examination of personality while I thought I performed very á
badly. Even now, I don't know how I managed it."
When I was selected for the university.
"It was the weekend of my homecoming. I saw my sister for the á
first time in 3 months. She's my best friend and extremely close."
"When I was at a party I met an old friend from an adult á
education course.  We had not met for 2 years but had both thought á
a lot about each other.  A wonderful experience.á
"
When my sister was born.
When I learnt that I had been accepted at UNZA.
"When my son returned from mountaineering - healthy in body and á
soul."
"I was studying in the library and a class-mate told me that she á
had obtained a grant to work in the library."
When I recently got an appartment in central Gottenburg.
The begining of my relations with my current girlfriend.
"When my girl told me that she loved me more than any male á
creature on earth and that I would be the only one in her heart á
for all her life.  "
"I remember my religious experience.  During  a gospel camp, a few á
friends of mine decided to believe in God.  The joy that I felt á
at that time was more than words can express.  I blessed them and á
praised God in my heart."
When I pass an exam.
"When the lady who is now my wife accepted my proposal to be my á
lover and future wife."
"When I was told that they had got tickets for me for a film á
marathon I wanted to see."
When I got my results ( I had made it to the second year ).
"Several good friends made me a surprise visit and this made me á
happy.  They are my closest friends and we had not seen each á
other for a long time."
"I thought that I was going to fail a subject and so I began to á
study for the final exam, then my friend told me that I had á
passed it.  That meant that I could go home, as I do not study in á
my hometown."
"I learnt from the newspaper that I had been accepted at the á
Chinese university of H.K.  It was 7 o'clock in the morning.  á
Later I told my family and relatives about it and had tea with á
them very joyfully."
"I met a girlfriend again after not seeing her for several months. á
 I saw her in a discotheque.  We do not like discotheques but we á
went there because we knew we would meet there."
When I attended my cousin's 31st birthday.
When I won an unexpected sum of money.
"A friend of mine suggested that I become a film extra.  The idea á
seemed very funny to me and my reaction seemed rather outlandish á
to the others."
When I obtained good marks in a subject I had failed before.
When I get a hug from someone I love.
"When they phoned me from Great-Britain to tell me that I could go á
there, if I wished, in Summer."
When I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal saviour.  
"I met a dear friend of mine after a long time.  I expressed my feelings á
in our own usual way, by mutual scolding and abusing (with á
complete understanding) and by touching, patting and taking the á
hand of the other person, etc..."
When my son was born.
"When I dived among sharks and the brightly coloured fish on the á
outer reef of Tvavni, Fidgi."
The man I am going around with gave me a very special present.
"When my older sister told us that she was thinking of joining the á
rest of the family for the winter sports holiday."
When my little sister was born.
"When I received the acceptance form for the second year at á
university."
When I passed an exam.
"When after 10 months of national service I was ""downgraded"" and á
did not have to do the remaining 5 months."
When I told my girlfriend a joke openly and frankly.
"I had not seen my brother for five years as he was not in Spain.   á
When he arrived at the airport, I felt great joy."
My son passed grade 7 and was accepted for form I.
"My father had an operation which lasted for hours.  We were all á
very worried but it was successful."
"I got my driving licence after they had frightened me with it's á
difficulty."
"I had gone camping with my old classmates and there was a storm.  á
We were in a flurry but at that time I felt the love and concern á
of my friends."
"When I saw that the mark I had obtained in an exam was a good á
one."
"I felt happy when I learnt that I had qualified for the grade á
eight."
When I finished the work that I had planned to do - my homework.
When I was acceptted as a student of psychology.
"When I learned, after the ecography, that my mother was expecting a á
baby girl.  That was what I wanted."
"When I was selected to this university despite my having á
studyied in difficulty throughout my secondary school days."
"An invitation to spend 5 days at the seaside with all expenses á
paid."
"When I was informed that I had been accepted as a student of á
Psychology."
"When I received the acceptance letter from UNZA.  I had just á
come home from work when my kind sister handed me an enveloppe á
which I opened and was overcome with joy."
When I passed the university entrance exam.
"Last night I had a chat with a fellow student.  I had known her á
for about half a year, and for the first time we were speaking á
""the same language""- meaning an inspiring discussion and á
encounter."
"I received an unexpected letter from a friend I had met a short á
time before.  He sent me a poem and wished me good luck.  I felt á
very happy because I had great esteem for that person."
"When a study tour got confirmed, I was happy all the time till    á
the tour began."
"An ex-colleague asked me if I was interested in working in their á
accounts bureau.  They needed ""clever people"" and he had á
""immediately thought of me."""
When I won a tennis match.
When my brother gave me a watch.
"When I received my report card in C.O.U.  I was afraid of obtaining á
low marks, but they were much higher than expected.  "
"I felt happy when I received the letter telling me that I had á
been admitted to the university."
When my one year old son gives me a spontaneous kiss.
"When I fell crazily in love with a beautiful girl and she returned á
my love."
When my wife gave birth to a baby boy - my only son to date.
"When I came across an old friend whom I had not seen for a very á
long time."
"When I passed my driving test, as it was the fifth time that I á
had taken this test."
"One night, at a friend's place I realized that I had everything I á
most wished, around me."
When my girlfriend became pregnant.
"When I qualified for form I.  I was one of the three pupils who á
qualified for form I that year."
"One Saturday afternoon, I deliberately dressed up nicely (I had á
been in a bad mood of late).  I hoped to go for a walk in the á
soft sunlight to try and uplift my spirits.  When I was having á
lunch in the canteen, two of my male classmates asked me as "
"When I received some good news : I obtained an amount of money I á
needed to buy something I had been planning to buy."
"When I met an old schhol friend (school love) who works in á
Sk+vde."
"I was overwhelmed with joy when I received the acceptance letter á
to UNZA.  This happened again when I passed all my first year á
courses."
When I talk to my friends.
"It was the first time I met him (my boyfriend Mr.W).  It was á
during the first term Summer vacations.  We met each other while á
handing in our homework.  He invited me have a trip with him and á
we were together till 8 P.M."
"Celebrations on the graduation day with the orchestra playing in á
the garden ( I am a part of this orchestra)."
"[ Any situation in everyday life has this emotional sense, in á
class, in the street, at home, at the table..........]"
When I was selected to study here at UNZA.
Passed the last exam.
A party I went to last Christmas.
When I got through the first day here at the department.
"For my parents anniversary, we hosted a party and we were very á
happy."
I stopped working (had a boring job).
When I passed the university entrance exam.
"I came across a friend with whom I had lost touch for a long á
time."
When I met my mother after not having seen her for three years.
When I was finally qualified for my profession.
"At a party, on New Year's Eve, I met on old friend whom I had not á
seen for some time"
"I was appreciated by others, especially my family members and my á
friends."
"Every time, in the last few days, when my girlfriend told me that á
she loves me."
"When I passed the first year and so I could come back for my á
second year."
"I worked at a lawyer's office during Summer and I got a very á
good reference from him."
"When I knew that there were, at last, no problems in making a á
journey that I had been wanting to make for a long time."
"I felt happy when my mother gave birth to a son who is the last á
born in the family."
"When I received the letter informing that I had been accepted to á
be a Chinese university student, I was excited as I had longed á
for it."
The first time I really fell in love with a girl.
When I passed an exam.
When I knew the feelings of a beloved person.
"When they told me that I had been admitted to the faculty of á
medicine."
[ No response.]
"I was very happy when I found out that I had passed with flying á
colours and that I had made it to the university."
"I was talking to a friend and he said something which was very á
funny."
"[ During a certain period, I felt successful and extremely satisfied.   á
When I found that any tasks or decisions that I had made were better  á
than expected.]"
"After a busy day I went back to my hostel.  I closed the door and á
had a drink, then I read my favourite book on the bed.  Suddenly á
I felt peace and joy."
"When my sister's first child came home, after one week in á
intensive care at the hospital."
"My boyfriend suffered form ill health for some months, this week á
the physician told him that he was restored to health."
When I was admitted to the Chinese universiity.
I finished my homework; an important task.
"The computer at school had left out my name along with four á
others and I had no rights for one year.  So I was happy to find á
my name on the medical schhol list."
"For a few days I felt very miserable, distressed and listless, á
with crying fits. When this was over I felt very happy, although á
there was no special reason."
When my 6 month old son is happy and well.
"When my boyfriend and I experience something nice or when we have á
made a nice walk together."
"When I received the first year results as the first year had á
involved a lot of work and I was very pleased when I got the á
results."
"When I began dansing, the teacher came and told me that I was á
very good and would soon get into the ballet academy. "
"One night I had a very good conversation with two friends. I then á
realized how worthy they were for me and how happy I was to á
have them as friends."
"I am happpy when I get good results in the field of academics or á
athletics.  "
"I felt joyful when my boyfriend met me at the station, while at á
first he had said that he would not do that."
"I was on holidays, and I was going to meet a friend whom I had á
not seen for six months.  Again I felt very happy."
When I gave birth to a healthy boy.
"After waiting impatiently for the results of the form 5 á
examinations for almost a year, at last I received a letter of á
acceptance from the Senate of the university of Zambia telling á
me that I had made it to the first year course at UNZA."
"When I recently got a very positive answer from a clinic telling á
me that they would willingly assist and collect data for me for a á
clinical pilot study."
"After the funeral of an acquaintance I felt very depressed. That á
feeling turned into joy when I heard that I had achieved a good á
grade for an examination."
"I was very happy when I passed and went to form I.  It was a á
great relief for me as I had been very worried considering the á
large number of pupils who fail."
"The day the results of the university entrance exam was á
published, I found my canditate number and I was very excited."
"When I found out that the girl, with whom I was in love, loved me á
too."
When I felt that my love was returned.
"Once a week I work as a volunteer in a biologic garden. this work á
in the garden and the contact with other volunteers filled me á
with joy. They also gave me support after I failed passing my á
driver's test."
"When someone made me a compliment after an examination just at á
the moment I needed it. It was amicable, hearty and sincere."
"When my elder sister had a baby girl.  She was the first girl in á
the family after 19 years of baby boys."
"I had a summer job in Sweden, and my boyfriend came to meet me on á
my birthday."
"When I went to visit a friend in the hospital. She had to undergo á
an operation for rupture. I was glad to hear that the operation á
succeeded and that she was relieved of her pain."
"Unofficially I was informed about my results of the final á
examination of the secondary school. A teacher wrote them up for á
me. When I went outside, I started crying with joy."
"When Christmas holiday started, I felt very joyful when I á
finished my last exam."
"A couple of years ago during the summer holiday, I was fishing at á
a lake with my husband.  Suddenly it started raining while the á
sun was still shining. I experienced a feeling of joy, happiness á
and fulfillment.  the whole nature was full of music."
"When I heard that I had got the best result in school and would á
be definately selected to the university of Zambia."
"Yesterday, when the final whistle blew at the final match between á
OIS and IFK and it was certain that OIS had won the Swedish á
title."
"My boyfriend was playing with my cat. He was playing games with her á
and telling nice things to her. "
"During my high school time I succeeded to play a concert of á
Mozart on the piano when I gave my first performance I succeeded á
to play it very well."
"When my elder brother, who had gone abroad to study  for six á
years, came back home safe and in good health."
The high school entrance exam.
When I could study at university.
"I was very happy when my scholarship to continue studying at UNZA á
was approved after it had been cancelled."
When I passed successive exams to enter the school of medicine.
When I got the scholarship letter from Australia.
"When I gave birth to a child and saw that it was normal when it á
was put against my breast."
"When I got the positive result of my examination to achieve the á
Bachelor Degree in Plychology."
"My sister in law was about to have a child, and there were some á
problems.  They had to do a Caesarean.  After a while, everything  á
was all right."
"When my girl and I decided to get back together after our á
separation."
"My friend had organized a birthday party for me secretly, I was á
very happy not so much for the presents but because they seemed á
to care for me."
"When my husband and I decided to take a few days holiday after a á
particularly trying period."
When the girl with whom I am in love smiles at me.
"I was admited to the Chinese university of Hong Kong.  The day á
the results were announced I looked in the newspaper and saw my á
candidature number."
On my birthday when several good friends came to visit me.
"I had been very weary all week - no letters, no phonecalls, no á
visitors and then my younger sister came with some cheese, a card á
and some pocket money for me; and she told me that she was á
working now."
"When I saw a good friend again after not having seen her for a á
long time."
"When my husband suddenly came to see me at my new job and á
brought some flowers and cake with him."
"After several days delay in my girlfriend's menstration I was á
very glad to see that the pregnancy test was negative."
I received a letter from a friend whom I was missing
"When the result of the certificate exam was announced.  I was á
surprised and happy as the result was better than I had á
expected."
"When I recently managed to get my first consulting assignment á
""myself"" i.e on my own initiative."
"The day the Real Madrid team of basket ball qualified for the á
final at Athens."
Finally being asked by someone to a banquet.
When I passed an important exam.
"When we were able to afford a new sofa - a leather one which cost á
SEK 20000.  I had waited for it for 2-3 years."
"When I saw a friend of mine, whom I had not seen for a long time á
and I had lost his address and telephone number."
I felt extreme joy the day I was baptized. I was one with God.
"When I was at the end-of-term party last week and had fun - was á
happy and sang and drank only soft drinks.  It is possible to á
have a good time without alcohol."
When I passed an exam which I had failed last year.
"When I was appointed to position of trust in a group set up to á
change the working environment."
"When I was told that I could take a week off and go for a trip á
with my friends."
"Right before I went to a concert with my last boyfriend he told á
me that although he told me he was going to take me to the á
concert, he didn't want to see me anymore. After that we stayed á
overnight and I said ""well, when he leaves me I will be ruined"
"When I saw that I had passed an exam.  It was the last chance and á
there was a lot at stake."
"When I saw the certificate results, I did not feel very happy as I á
did not realize that I had got all the credits until my á
classmates pointed it out to me.  My parents and my relatives á
praised me and I realized that my results were good i.e 2A, 5B, "
When i was asked to be a child's godmother.
"When I pass exams, or when a close friend of mine recovered á
from an illness,etc."
"I received a grade above average on a midterm (chemistry) and I á
expected onevery below average."
At my sister's wedding.
"When I met a very close friend of mine after one year of á
separation."
Our basketball team is undefeated in league play (4-0) currently.
"I realized that a fellow member had grown spiritually.  I was the á
leader of a spiritual group and had prayed for him.  He did not á
want to burn the incense but his mother forced him to do it.  á
Finally his mother told him that he could discontinue if "
"In 1980 when I was in the 12th standard, we had arranged a small á
picnic in Kandala.  One of my closest friends wrote a small and á
cute poem for me, which expressed the feeling of closeness we had á
for each other.  I was very thrilled and I can still r"
The day I heard that I passed the high school exam.
"A close relative of mine underwent a difficult operation, and everything á
turned out fine."
When I learnt that I had been admitted to the university.
"On a boat trip to Denmark, 14 of us had a lot of fun and we á
spent SEK 10 each on one armed bandits and against all odds we á
won the jackpot of SEK 1000."
When I was with someone I love.
When they told me that I had got a study grant.
When my father was saved from a severe work accident.
"I met my friend and he gave me a wonderful present as it was my á
birthday.  I enjoyed having that present."
"[ Cycling in the spring sunshine gives me such delight.  á
Happiness is to be healthy, my wonderful finance.  Simply being á
here on earth.]"
"When I got to know that I had passed the university entrance á
exam.  I thought that I had done one of the exams badly."
"When I passed the B.A exams and my parents allowed me to carry on á
my studies and do a M.A. , I was very happy."
"Talkiing about the past happy hours with two friends at night in á
a camp a few months ago.  We shared our feelings, notions and á
every hidden anxiety.  I thought that they cared for me and I á
was very happy and satified."
"When I saw my 16 year old sister at home after having waited for á
her all night, not knowing where she was."
"The day some friends of mine and I decided to go to Galicia on á
holiday."
"When I was offered a high position of trust, which I later á
accepted."
"A friend of mine told me that I had passed the entrance exam to á
the university."
"When last year in college I received the award ""Best Student of the Year"", á
  I felt very happy as I got what I had wanted and my wish had á
been fulfilled.á
"
When my brother was born.
"I watched a football match with my old friend.  The performance á
of the team was very good and the team members were full of á
spirit.  The match was excellent and every time a goal was scored á
I felt excited."
"After my girl and I talked things over our relationship changed á
and became positive.  A diificult time turned into pleasant one."
"I was told quite unexpectedly that one wanted me to become the á
vice-chairman of our student organisation.  I was really á
surprised and joy was the first emotion I felt, though behind it á
there was worry - how shall I succeed ?"
"When I saw that I had passed the university entrance exam.  It á
made me forget all my problems."
"When I passed the B.A exams with 1st class.  I was the first in á
the family to have got a 1st class, so all the family members á
were very happy and they gave me the opportunity to study á
further."
"A few days ago, I hitch-hiked to Arnhems with a friend. á
Everything went well: they picked us up very quickly, the sun was á
shining, I was feeling free and, for the first time after long á
time, happy. I really had the feeling that I was living at full "
"I was spending the week-end with some friends.  We were waiting á
for another friend and we went to the meet him at the bus stop, a  á
woman we met there told us that the coach had already left.  I á
was afraid that I would not see my friend, but at last "
When I passed the first examination that I had to repeat.
Talking to a close friend.
When I got accepted to CAL.
"I felt joy when I was admitted to the Higher Agricultural á
Institute."
"I went to a doctor with a complaint. The doctor told me that I á
was completely healthy."
"I was for the first time on a brigade this year. At that time my á
sister was to bear a child. I was mad with joy when I opened the á
telegram from my parents and learned I had a nephew."
"My old boyfriend - yes the same one - asked me out. We had a good á
time. Then he asked me out the following week. He actually took á
interest."
[ Being close to another person.]
"Naturally when I got myself discharged this was my second á
birthday."
Doing unexpectedly well in an examn.
"At church camp when I accepted Christ into my life and so did my á
friend."
"After being depressed because of a very bad relationship, my á
first love called me and told me that he would always care for me á
no matter what I did."
"A holiday at a whitesand deserted beach. A cool evening near the á
end of summer and we had a fire in the sand - toasted á
marshmellows, cuddled and drank champagne."
"I felt the greatest burst of joy when after being heavily ill for á
a long period, my father came back home."
"I spoke with a friend on the phone who I haven't seen in many á
years. It was a joyful event to talk to him."
"When I look at people around and know that people who are stupid á
look stupid."
"When I got a message that I was employed as a nurse at a á
kindergarten."
"I had met someone and we became good friends. Our relationship á
grew closer and now he is my boyfriend. I felt joy when I found á
out how he felt about me."
Found out that the girl I love loves me, too.
"Being invited out by a person I wished to get closer to. He á
telephoned and invited me to go out with him the next night."
"My girlfriend gave me some feed-back and I understood that it á
meant that our relationship was about to turn even closer."
My father promoted to be a professor.
"Third highest grade in the class and the best answer given for á
one question (the question was graded by the professor and he á
indicated he liked my answer)."
"Girlfriend arriving back from overseas and picking her up from á
airport. When she finally appeared from customs and we came in á
contact again."
When I heard that I had made it to the second year at UNZA.
I felt joy when my boyfriend proposed to me in marriage.
"When I got home from my job, I found a letter from the university á
telling me that I had been admitted to begin my studies."
"I was very glad when I learned I was a student already. I heard á
about it over the phone, I didn't believe it at first."
"When the whole family gets together for a one week holiday.  á
Everybody feels free and the trip is well planned.  It works out á
well and we enjoy ourselves."
"I felt glad when I took the rather difficult organic chemistry á
examination."
"After watching the 49ers lose game after game, year after year, I á
was finally rewarded with a Super Bowl victory which made me á
extremely happy."
"On the cliff by the sea, the silence and the sudden voice of a á
bird.(swans of the bay)"
When I was admitted to the Higher Institute.
"I sensed a strong feeling of joy when in the plant, at my working á
place, I got a message that I was admitted as full time student at á
the Higher Agricultural Institute."
"When I unexpectedly received birthday greetings from a person I á
like."
"After a difficult exam. When I had not hoped to take it and had á
got a high mark. When you present someone with something and he á
feels glad."
"I passed an exam which I was not sure at all to pass.  I rejoyced á
at the result because the possibility of continuing my studies á
depended on it."
"I was sitting for an exam in biochemistry, I was very excited á
because it was a supplementary examination. I passed the exam á
very well and was glad because I recovered my selfconfidence."
"I spent a lovely relaxing evening with my boyfriend. We played á
games and talked all evening."
I shot the decisive goal in an ice-hockey match.
"When I succeded in establishing a contact with a girl (who is now á
my girlfriend)."
When I first passed a job interview.
"I feel joy usually after each taken exam, the last one was in á
February."
"I took a math midterm and I knew I did really well and it was á
Friday so I felt great joy because the week was over and I did á
well on a test."
Talking to a close friend.
"When my lover and I felt like we had gone full circle. And our á
relationship was new, fresh, vital etc. once again."
"After going through much shame, I became a Christian and á
something new happened in my heart.  Joy that overflows was á
manifest in me."
"When the bank let me borrow some money this winter, after my á
grant was spent."
Letting Jesus take control of my emotions i.e., ill feeling.
When I was accepted at UNZA.
When I found out I got accepted to Berkeley.
"Did well in an examn just before my father's birthday: the best á
present I can give to my father."
"My cousin asked me to be a bridesmaid for her. This made really á
happy because I was adopted into the family and her asking me á
made me realise that she saw me as a cousin and not just another á
person. There were other cousins she could have asked but "
I won the country ski championship.
Joy at meeting a woman I love very much.
"On my birthday, my closest friends were here at Berkeley pithched á
in a lot of money each and bought me ten records to replace some á
of my records that were stolen. They threw a small surprise party á
for me too."
"Receiving a letter form a girl that means a lot to me á
emotionally."
"The day I was told that I had been accepted as a student of á
economics."
Had a nice letter from my close friend.
When I found our my mother didn't have cancer.
"A good friend, the wife of the vicar of my church came up to me á
from the pews (I am in the choir) and shook my hand during the á
time for an informal ""greeting"" in the church service. She said a á
few words."
"When I spoke to my daughter and wished her luck for the á
examinations she was about to take."
When the contract about my shop was signed.
"My friend replying to my letter and again saying he was attracted á
to me and suggesting we write, talk and get together and see how á
things went and his suggestion that I could ring and doing that it á
was really good - though really insane conversation"
"My boyfriend and I were getting dressed up and putting make-up á
on to go to a Halloween Party. We were dressing up to be two á
mimes. It was very enjoyable and I thought we looked really good, á
it was an accomplishment. We were alone in his house."
Relatives visiting me.
Relating to my closest family.
"Riding home from school after completing two midterms in two á
days, and feeling I did well on them."
When in an economic crisis I got an unexpected sum of money.
"When I was admitted to the Institute. I had problems with many á
people about my applying for this institute and I decided to á
prove that one can pass excellently without visiting any á
preparatory couse. That is - I proved what I could do on my own."
While dancing in a restaurant last week.
"Felt joy a few years ago when I was away on holiday. And sat very á
close to my best friend looking straight into the eyes."
"I had a dream : I had a very close friend who had several stone á
houses in the New Territories (villages) but they did not have á
much furniture.  He took me to see his fields (I had never seen á
them before) and there were several inches of clear water "
China winning the Asian Olympic games (TV).
"When I meet old past pupils of mine - and find they are all doing á
well - I feel joy. Yesterday I met a young woman (20 yrs) I'd á
taught her at 6 yrs, then at 12 yrs and hadn't seen her for last á
3-4 yrs; she was no longer a waitress but a meter maid f"
"Football was a very big deal at my high school, so I was joyous á
when my school's team won the conference championship last year."
"I was coming home from an exam and I supposed that I had á
passed it so I ran to a restaurant for a beer."
My 3 children - each top his class in the final exams 1984.
"Joy for me is when all my family gather around home for special á
occasions as Christmas etc. It really gives me joy to see my á
family and relatives and to observe natures productivity process á
which have been going on for centuries."
When my daughter was born.
"Achievement of a task by a friend who had begun a new job. She á
wasn't confident of handling the situation so was thinking  of á
leaving the job only after 2 days employment."
Hear a very nice joke made by a friend.
"Being reunited with my family after not having seen them for 5 á
years, at the airport. Sheer elation at getting through the á
""paper work"" collecting bags and the anticipation of coming á
through the customs gate."
"I experienced joy at a friend's 22nd birthday party. We had good á
food, good liquid, good company, good music, and an overall warm á
atmosphere. The birthday girl and I communicate incredibly well. á
I felt very content, warm and inspired just talking wi"
[ A successful lesson.]
"My mother along with some of my friends gave me a surprise á
birthday party - they invited a large number of my friends along á
too."
"When a cousin of mine was discharged from the hospital after       á
a long illness.  I had thought that this illness would never end."
Found my name on the list of attending the English lectures.
"I am a school teacher. At a teacher-parent meeting I received a á
good deal of positive feed-back on my work both from the parents á
and through them from the pupils."
"Passing my pharmacy exams which meant my tertiary education for á
pharmacy completed."
"My parents and brother came up over the weekend. We are a very á
close family. This was my first year away from home. They brought á
one jacko-lantern with a new design. That is the old joke that á
we have a great new design - it's always the same."
When I went for a picnic in Lonavala, I felt full of joy.
"When I passsed the M.S.C board exams with first class, which I á
had not expected."
"I was very happy when I received the year end results as I was á
worried about how well I had done.  I was very happy to know that I á
had passed."
"I am a sportwoman as well. I felt joy when after an year of á
practice, at a contest, I covered the norms for ""a master of sports""."
"When my friend told me that he would come and meet me in a á
moment."
"I acted in an English play in college and got the Best Actress á
award, while our play got the first place."
When I was admitted to the University.
Getting into this university.
When I got first division in the exams before leaving school.
"When I learned I was admitted to study what I wanted most - á
floriculture (this is a narrow specialization from the general á
one)."
When my affairs with the girl I love settled positively.
"When I felt that an exam, which I had feared, was an easy one and á
went well."
"I passed successfully the preliminary exam for a participation in á
the children Assembly."
"When I got an unexpected letter from  a guy, who had been my school á
mate."
"When I got permission to study at a place which was far away from my á
home."
Bulgaria won a football match against France.
Getting into this university to do medicine.
I felt joy when my two twin sisters were born.
"I went for a walk on the beach with a friend whom I had not seen á
for many months.  The weather was very pleasant, we had some á
ice-cream and lots of fun on the beach."
"I am not especially good at English, and after the high school á
graduation exam in English I tensely waited for the result the á
whole day.  In the evening, when I heard that I had done á
excellently, I became very happy and the anxiety vanished.  My á
f"
"The period when I was pregnant and when I gave birth to my son. á
I can say those were the happiest months in my life."
"When I got 21/30 points in an exam of statistics. The result was á
unexpected and it made me realize that statistics do not á
surpass my abilities, as I have sometimes thought."
"When I was pressing figures on the curtain cloth. I had bought á
the cloth after months of hindrances."
My best friend chosen for your English lectures.
"When after an overwhelming anxiety and enquiry, I understood á
something about why I exist and what my task in life is."
I won a sport contest.
"That afternoon I rushed home to look at the result slip of the á
higher level as fast as possible.  I opened the envelope very á
carefully and found that my results were much better than I á
had expected and thus I could enter the Chinese university.  My "
"When I got a first class in the twelveth standard exams, I was very á
surprised and happy and I had a very good time with my friends."
When my son was born.
"Begining the week-end with my girlfriend : cozyness, beer and á
wine."
When I had my four children.
Meeting a loved man.
When I understood I was admitted to the Sofia University.
"I sensed such a feeling when I understood I was admitted to the á
University. I was at home, the atmosphere was still, though I á
myself was full of suspense. I tried to do different things. When á
the telephone rang and...! Yes, of course there were othe"
"At a friend's birthday party with some of my closest friends.  It á
was all very pleasant and one could say that I was happy to have á
such good friends."
When I passed the B.A exams with first class results.
Receiving a letter from a boy I care.
When I was admitted to the University.
"When I got home from a pleasant trip abroad, I got to know that I á
had been accepted at university."
When I understood that I was admitted to the University.
I was very happy when I passed the B.A with first class marks.
"A quarrel was followed by the decision of leaving a person close á
to me. Several days later my regret was great. I was beside á
myself. Quite unexpectedly he came and the conflict was calmly á
solved. I was glad at the possibility to be with him."
Finding out that I can go to your English lectures.
"I felt joy when I saw my daughter after a separation of twenty á
days."
"Last year I passed the B.A exams in Psychology in which I stood first á
in my class.  Thus I got the first prize from the college.  I was á
most happy to tell all this to my parents and friends."
"Getting sent on a company expense trip to another state to work á
for a week at that plan."
Aticle published.
Finding out that I am not ill (not seriously).
When I met with friends that I hadn't seen for a long time.
I got to know that I had been accepted at university.
"When I hooked a girl in Kitwe.  She was very beautiful for my á
standards, a rare bird of this kind accepted me as a boyfriend."
"Six months ago when I got acquaintanced with a person whom I á
trusted infinitely and from whom I expected help and friendly á
feelings. With him I found much in common - in our views and in á
our fate."
"When I finished my C.S. Project I was overjoyed. I felt relieved á
because it was due the next day and I was tired of looking at it."
A sunny Autumn day, after a long rainy period.
When I was accepted as a student.
"During the exam period I studied in the library alone.  A close   á
friend of mine, who is also a classmate, told me that my á
application for a Japanese inter-cultural exchange programme had á
been accepted.  I was not very sure as I did not know that th"
"I felt it when on duty in the hospital I understood that I was á
not afraid to face death, that I also helped a little to relieve á
the pains of a patient."
"I was happy when I understood that the girl I liked was in love á
with me."
I got a fairly large amount of my taxes back.
When I knew that my husband and I were going to have a child.
"Winning a close volleyball game. (I'm on the intercollegiate team á
at CAL)"
Falling in love.
"I was very happy when I got the message that I had been accepted á
as a student in medicine."
"When I learned that my parents were going abroad and leaving me á
alone for a few years."
When I first came to the campus.
"After much trouble getting together in the first place my á
boyfriend and I celebrated our first anniversary."
"I unexpectedly met a girl with whom I have always got along well. á
( I had not seen her for several months.)"
First public speaking.
"I started a new branch of studies after having failed a former á
one.  When I got back my exam papers I was very happy to know á
that I almost had full marks."
"When I got my results - I had passed the form III exams.  I had á
not expected to do so well."
When my family allowed me to do higher studies.
"When I was accepted for further education, here at the á
university."
When I was admitted to the University.
"After my marriage I received the B.Sc results by post, I was very á
happy to learn that I had got very good marks - first class."
My girlfriend sent me a letter with a shiny picture in it.
The day when my son said for the first time "mummy".
China winning the Asian Olympic games.
"My first feeling of falling in love.  Coming across a person who á
made me feel love, happiness, joy, giving me a new and beautiful á
future, who made me dream."
"A party with no worries (i.e. no tests homework etc.) many á
friends were present and good music."
"The sense of joy comes to me always after a period of depression, á
as an organic feeling for an upsurge. I don't exclude the á
situative feeling but in this case the reason is not in me, it's á
out of me."
"When, to my surprise, I got to know about having got ""very good"" á
high school graduation marks."
My son was born.
"When I received a positive answer from my appeal to withdraw my á
registration at UNZA."
When I passed the B.A exams with first class results.
"My mother, sister and I were thinking about old times, our á
childhood, and we had a very happy time."
"After 10 days of hard work and having suffered many changes I á
passed my last exam."
When I found out that I can travel with my best friend.
"When I am with friends and I do what pleases me this often á
happenes."
I realized the girl liked to be with me.
"My joy was the joy of meeting again.  My husband came home after á
having been away for weeks (for work).  I was on the railway á
station to meet him."
I felt very happy when I won the football pools.
Thought had discovered true love.
When  fell in love with my present girlfriend.
I got a very good grade on one of my midterms a few weeks ago.
"Meeting best friend at the airport (boyfriend) who I had missed á
terribly."
"I felt vvery happy when I was accepted at UNZA for my studies.  á
I had not expected this as I had been ill during the exams."
"When my brother who has been out of New Zealand for 10 years came á
to visit with his wife which none of our family had previously á
met."
Going to a concert.
"I was told that I had passed the statistics exam.  I had not á
expected this so I was very happy."
"When I finally got a job after days of wondering whether I would á
be hired or not and counting on the money that it would bring."
"When I had achieved a goal indirectly. I work for CAL Football á
and our 2nd win of the season was very gratifying and brought á
our joy because of the hard work involved and the fact that no á
one expected we would win."
I got a job right after school was over.
"When some friends of mine asked me to go camping with them for a á
fortnight."
Renewed contact with an earlier friend.
"Hearing that I had been successful in getting a position whereby á
my financial, physical, spiritual and emotional needs will be á
well catered for. This position fulfils a lot of my aims for the á
last five years of my life."
Finding my glasses again after having lost them in town.
Found out my wife (girl-friend?) pregnant.
Finding out I was chosen for the English lectures.
Article published.
"When I found out that I had passed the last two exams by a á
margin of three marks."
"When my former boyfriend and I reconciled and he decided that I á
was very important to him. I had always wanted us to get back á
together again, but had doubted the likelihood of this, so I was á
very happy when my small amount of faith was vindicated."
"When I went to the pub with a large group of friends, we drank á
and danced."
The last time I had sex.
"I was very pleased and happy when my older sister came home from á
living somewhere out of town and I hadn't seen her for months. We á
are very close sisters."
"Today I did a lot better on my architecture project than I á
expected."
"Receiving a postcard form my sweetheart who was abroad on á
vacation, not being at all sure if he would write me or not."
Receiving my result slip (pass) on my birthday.
Won a prize for effort.
Talking to my close friend.
Birth of children.
Selling my used car.
Managed to run 30 Km on skis fairly simply.
"Yesterday when I received a B on a history midterm. I felt á
overjoyed after having received C's previously."
"When I was finally able to return to a job that I enjoyed doing á
after several months absence (I was not needed during this time)."
"Reading a letter from a close friend who said he missed me and á
cared for me."
Getting the top price in the football pools.
Easter holiday - I had been working weekends and had just left.
"Winning a rowing race at a Karapiro regatta. With 7 other á
friends."
"I was feeling really low - had been a series of fights with my á
siblings, been under pressure at school and wasn't going to the á
party I wanted to go - instead I was going out with my family. A á
guy called and said, in effect, that I was ""nice"" and he "
"Having passed the exam required to be an authorized Radio/TV á
dealer."
"Getting my kitten, found at work several years ago, taking him á
home in a box on my motorbike, showing it to my defacto."
Hearing Fran Wilde introduce the Bill.
Winning the local soccer championships this year was a great joy.
"When I received the result slip of the higher level examination á
(an university entrance exam) and saw that I had a very good á
possibility of being accepted into the university, I felt very á
excited."
"I phoned a friend of mine to ask her for news about the marks in á
an exam.  She told me that I had passed."
"Receiving understanding from within self of a subject I had á
previously wished to understand better."
Waking in morning (early morning) and having whole day to myself.
"When I gave birth to my son and saw that he was alive and that I á
had managed it well.  He was born a month too early with a á
malfunctioning lung.  This happened a year ago."
I went home and visited with my family and friends.
When I was selected to a University College of Nursing.
Getting my accentance letter from CAL. 
"I did a solo flight from Ardmore to Kaikohe before I got my pilot á
licence. I can remember it was gorgeous day and I was on a á
natural high, cruising up the coast with my maps and compasses á
and gear. Other pilots had seen me off and wished me good luc"
"When I drove partially across the country with my father. We á
stopped in a few towns and stayed overnight in motels. The joy I á
got was from the feedom I felt and the real beauty of the á
country."
Reunion with my wife after a legal separation.
Succeeding in helping others.
"Returning to school and rejoining my girlfriend after 3 months of á
separation from summer."
"The feeling of joy when again I had confessed my sin and á
experienced God's forgiving grace and cleansing power - total á
enlightenment and freedome - bliss."
"Finding out I am chosen to collect norms for Chinese aphasia (I á
will contribute to China's catching up with the West in á
neuropsychology)."
I gave my mom a gift she wanted for years. I raflected her joy.
"At my wedding - standing with the man I love and acknowledging á
that fact to members of family and friends."
"I received the message that I'd been accepted at the school where I á
really wanted to go."
Finding out that the person I love understands me.
"A close acquaintace cried for me. I felt happy because somebody á
cared."
When my first niece was born.
"When I won a position on the track-team for the trans-tasman á
games when I was eleven."
Receiving a nice present from my parents.
When I received a letter of acceptance to CAL.
"First time I slept with my present girlfriend. Had been best á
friends for a year but had been hesitant about getting involved á
emotionally."
"After attending a song contest proposed by a band called ""Chyne"" á
we (6 of us) waited for the members of the band to greet us in á
front of the stage.  We went out after a few minutes as it was á
time to close the hall.  We had been waiting at the entran"
"Receiving close friends form abroad, whom I hadn't seen for á
years."
"My sister, whom I like very much, asked me for a favour which I á
refused her for some flimsy reason. Some time later I felt sorry á
for that and something like sadness."
Saw poverty in the countryside.
"A young, close relative of mine died, leaving behind a baby a few á
months old."
"When my ex-girlfriend and I discovered that there was a certain risk á
of her being pregnant."
My grandmother died.
"It was shocking news to me when I received a telegram from home á
telling me that my grandmother had passed away. I had to go home to attend á
the funeral but unfortunately I found that the burial had already á
taken place."
"I felt sad when I heard that my cousin had passed away just á
suddenly."
When our dog died.
When I learnt that my close friend was going to immigrate.
"When the thing that made my friends and relatives sad happened to á
them."
"A relationship in which I had put my trust, broke up.  I was sad á
when I realized how easy it is to forget something that one had á
once regarded as great and significant."
Finding out that China is still backward in science.
Not doing well in an examn.
"After hearing about the death of my grandfather.  First I could á
not believe it, but later I wept and felt the situation was á
hopeless.  I felt lonely and wanted to be consolated."
"Years ago on Christmas Eve I felt very sad because I realized for á
the first time how I missed my father who had died at Christmas á
Years ago."
"When I thought that it was going to be impossible for me to start á
studying (due to wrong information from the student advisor)."
I experienced this emotion when my grandfather passed away.
A person died (not really a friend).
When an earlier friend was spreading negative rumours about me.
My grandfather died, I went to the mortuary and saw the corpse.
Finding out that life span in China is shorter than in the West.
A friend's brother died.
"I quarrelled with my younger sister because I had said something á
against her boyfriend.  Consequently she looked through me when á
she saw me as she thought that I was trying to separate them.  á
She had misunderstood me."
When my studies are too demanding and I cannot cope with it.
"I am a Christian but I cannot find any meaning in life . It á
seems that I am deceiving myself but I cannot find the way out."
I felt sad and depressed when I heard that our cat had died.
"I had cared for a horse for 2 years. One day it was sold and I á
cried for several days because I was so sad."
When I was told that a good friend was seriously ill.
When I was accused of neglecting work for the wrong reasons.
My old teacher in primary school died.
"When I heard of the death of a friend who had just finished her á
training I felt very sad for she was young."
"When I think about the short time that we live and relate it to á
the periods of my life when I think that I did not use this á
short time."
"When I argue with my mother about the way she treats her two á
children differently."
When I found that my coldness had hurt somebody's sincerity.
"When my uncle died I saw a funeral for the first time. All people á
stood around the open grave and cried."
Relative's death.
My mother was ill and my father was not at home.
"I had had a farewell party at the place where I had been working á
for a year.  That night I could not fall off to sleep.  I was sad á
thinking that I would not see my nice fellow workers again."
"Being away from a very close friend, I was away from Finland á
for a year as an exchange student."
"The elections of 1982 and 1985.  The thought of what a social á
democrat and communist majority could achieve, especially ""worker á
share"" funds and its extension."
When my girlfriend left me.
"After I had lived with my boyfriend in a foreign country for half á
a year, I saw that it was impossible for me to stay with him (for á
economic reasons). We separated although I loved him."
"One night my father suddenly suffered from a heart attack which á
lead to breathing difficulties."
"My sister was impolite to my father when the family was having á
lunch together at a restaurant.  She thought that our parents had á
been prejudiced against her, this was an extreme thought."
"When I heard that my Uncle had passed away in a road traffic á
accident."
"My friend was pregnant, but lost her child during the second á
month. I went to see her at hospital - she was crying. I felt á
very sorry for her."
"When the result of a project work was treated nonchalantly á
intead of being criticized by the teacher."
Being bored in school, not being able to marry and have children.
My mother's death.
"I could not meet my love, after having waited for a month, due to á
illness."
"When my half brother became seriously ill with cancer and died á
later."
The death of my grandmother.
When my grandmother died of cancer.
"When I feel lonely, perhaps because I have to study a lot and I á
am shut up in my appartment.  Nothing happens in particular á
because there is no time for anything else."
"When I saw the list of books to read for an acccouting course, I á
thought "" Oh God how will I ever manaage it!"""
"Discovering that Lillehammer provided no musical environment that á
suits my taste, even though I had been told so."
"This issue worried me rather than saddening me.  In mid September á
I went to Guanggho alone.  I was looking for an accomodation in á
the evening and after having walked 2 or 3 miles I still could not á
find anything.  What could I do?  I was not worried "
"I talked to my boyfriend on the phone when I was in high spirits á
and had a lot to tell him.  I had been looking forward to this á
conversation and he did not listen to me to the extent that I á
had anticipated."
"Christmas Eve: there was a tension between my parents, they did á
not even try to restore a harmonic atmosphere. Mother stayed in á
her room almost the whole day. I felt alone and was very sad."
"A close acquaintance of the family died of lung cancer.  á
Although it was expected, I still felt depressed."
"When we were on holidays my girl-friend had to leave me after 4 á
weeks and I had to stay in Turkey for some more weeks because I á
had a job there."
When my cousin passed away.
"The death of my father, even though we had not been very close to á
each other."
When my girlfriend told me that she wanted to leave me.
"When my mother went through an operation, it was not very serious á
but I was sad and could not sleep before the operation."
My uncle died in the Vietnam War.
"[ A person close to me told me that his positive regard depended á
on my conduct.]"
"My cut was run over by a car. After searching for a long time I á
found her lying in a kerb. I was rather shocked and angry with á
the driver."
At the death of a close relative.
My father suddenly fell ill and died.
"When I was left alone one week-end without being prepared for á
it."
"The last time I felt sad and disappointed was when I did not do á
as well as I had hoped in one of the final exams.  As compared á
with the earlier exams, the questions, I think, were unjust."
"My grandmother died, and my mother called me one sunday morning á
in the Autumn.  The way my mother told me about it, I hated her á
at that moment.  She sounded as if she had been waiting for the á
death of my grandmother.  I had lost a person close to me"
"Not being chosen for the English lectures (my girl-friend á
chosen)."
I saw a lot of starving people in a T.V news report.
"When I applied for a job which I thought I had a good chance of á
getting, I was not even granted an interview and did not get the á
job."
"Found out that my grandmother might have been misdiagnosed as a á
psychiatric patient because the doctor did not know about á
neurologism."
"When my grandfather died, with whom I had a very close á
relationship."
"Our dog had to be shot because he had killed a roe. I liked him á
very much and so I could not resign myself to that. I hated the á
hunter who shot him."
"My best friend had failed Exams. She had to leave and so we got á
separated."
When I had to leave my mother and my sister after a week's visit.
When I read a lot and did not remember anything.
"When I was a child I was playing on the upper deck of the bed á
with my brother.  My parents slept on the lower deck.  My father á
felt disgusted and beat me up.  I felt very sad as my father had á
never beaten me or scolded me before."
"My got my mathematics test's marks and could not believe that it á
was true.  In the past I would have at least 80% marks.  Was I á
getting weaker at studies ?  This made me feel that I should not á
expect too much from going to the university."
When I think about my parents getting old.
When my grandmother died.
My parents failed to visit me as they promised.
"When I learnt that I had failed an exam,  This not only influenced á
my emotions but also other important tasks, it also made my á
record imperfect."
[ No response.]
[ When I am, in my opinion, not understood correctly. ]
I got to know about the death of a close friend.
My grandmother died.
"When I was transferred from Chichiri Secondary School to St. á
Mary's Sec. School. I was happy at Chichiri as a day scholer and á
had made a lot of friends. I was going to a boarding and that á
meant parting with my friends as well as my boyfriend for the"
"I was told by a good friend that we couldn't be friends any more á
because of his relationship with another girl."
Finding out my best friend cannot go to the English lectures.
"When realizing that my girlfriend and myself in fact had started á
the process of breaking up."
"I was sad when I heard that my cousin died because of being á
bewitched by her husband's second wife."
"I felt sad after having had an argument with my boyfriend.  I felt á
that he did not understand me and that there was no point in á
carrying on with the relationship."
"About two years ago my girlfriend suggested that we separate.  á
This really gave me a shock as I had never thought that she would á
say such things.  The reason she gave me was that we were not á
suited for each other."
"My favourite horse died. We had tried our best to save him, but á
it was hopeless, he had to be shot."
Long illness.
My father left us for another woman.
My grandfather's funeral.
My good friend misunderstood me.
"I tried to talk to my parents over the phone, as I wanted to go á
home for the week-end and I knew that I would not be able to bear á
it.  I tried to reduce the gulf and the conflict between us by á
talking in order to unite our worlds.  Result : hysteric"
The inability to read a book at college.
"My grandfather was seriously ill, he had only a few days left to á
live. I had always loved him, but never told him. When I saw him á
for the last time, I had the feeling that I had omitted so many á
things I could not do again. - There was a fly sitting "
My best friend suddenly acting strange towards me.
When I had not understood anything after a lecture.
A very close friend left me.
After an exam which I failed.
Deceived by other people and ran into trouble.
When I failed my Standard 8 Examination for the first time.
"I had taken the responsibility to do something and I had á
prepared for it.  However I failed because of my timidity.  After á
three attempts I still could not adapt to the atmosphere and á
failed as before.  I felt imcompetent and felt that the others á
"
"When I was 9 years old, I got a cat, but after 3 days he died. I á
was very sad, because I had nursed him and taken him to the á
veterinary's - but in vain. Although I had had him only for a á
short time I had liked him very much."
"My child passed away after a short illness when he was just á
eleven months old. I was only told about his death without á
knowing that he had been ill."
When I was not chosen to go to your English lectures. 
"After a meeting ended we started talking about when we would á
have the next discussion ( I had many tests the coming week and á
could not have a meeting in between, I thought that they would á
understand this as they had always done).  They did not á
und"
"A good friend quitted me after he had behaved in a strange á
manner."
"After some friends had come to see me. They had stayed for á
several days and we had got on very well. When they had left, I á
had a feeling of emptyness."
"I felt sad at having to leave my girlfriend after constant problems á
and failed attempts at reconciliation.  My sadness was caused by á
the irreversibility of the decision."
"Estrangement from my best woman friend.  We have been going á
different ways for quite some time now, but the break was total á
when she got married as her husband is unreasonably jealous of me."
We had to finish the life of our 8 year-old dog.
"A friend of mine, who had repeated a year at school once before, á
did not pass the final examination and had to take it again half á
a year later."
"When I did not get the salary increase that I had been expecting á
and understood how little one's work was appreciated."
"My current work load is too much.  The feeling comes back from á
time to time."
I had to give up my love, because it did not work out well.
When I lost the person who meant the most to me. 
"A few years ago my mother suffered from canccer and died within á
two years.  We had not finished our studies then and could not á
bear our responsibilities as her children.  My mother had tried á
her best to take care of us but she lived in pain these tw"
"A woman I know is slowly dying from cancer. Observing this á
process makes me sad."
[ No response.]
"I felt sad when a thief stole all the clothes from my friend's á
cupboard at school (boarding)."
A close friend of mine had not contacted me for a long time.
"When I realized that my girlfriend, whom I like, and I were going á
to separate."
"During the Christmas holidays, I went to see my parents and á
stayed with them for two weeks. After two or three days, we had á
the same conflicts we had had ten years before when I had lived á
with them. They were glad when I left."
"Being sexually assulted and told my friends about it (we cried á
together)."
"I wanted to be pregnant and did not succeed, so I was depressed    á
at every menstruation."
When my boyfriend wanted to leave me, I felt sad and melancholic.
A case of unrequited love.
"Finding out that China is poor, so we cannot have good reference á
books."
"When I said good-bye to my girlfriend.  I had spent two years on á
developing this relationship and it was unsuccessful, I felt very á
sad."
The breaking up of a long lasting relationship.
"A friend told me that he had suffered in love and in academics.  á
I shared his sadness."
"I arranged with a friend to go skating the next day. He asked me á
to wake him up by telephone at twelve o'clock because we had come á
home late in the morning. Next day I called him - he was not at á
home. As something like that had happened to me severa"
"I had a long discussion on politics with an acquaintance.  He á
was more knowledgeable than me and I failed to explain my point á
of view and was misunderstood so I felt depressed and left."
When my gradmother died.
"Having to go back home form the U.S. after having been there for á
ten weeks to visit my brother and his family."
Finding out I am not good looking.
A horse which I had liked very much was taken away.
"Power cut made me unable to listen to the songs sung by my á
favourite pop star."
When I left New York, and all my family and my friends behind me.
"One of my good friends had to migrate to America.  Our friendship á
had developed quite well and it was a pity as our friendship would á
fade."
I missed the last tram home and had to walk in the pouring rain.
"When we decided, my boyfriend and I, that we would separate, I á
realized that he would have wanted to continue our relationship á
and the coming separation hurt him."
"When my friend did not pass the high school graduation á
examinations."
"I was at home alone when I realized that a young roe approached á
our house. I hid because I did not want to frighten it. It á
limped. Some time later, when I thought that it had already run á
away, I saw it lying on our terrace. I came nearer and saw tha"
"When my friends did not ask me to go to a New Year's party á
with them."
When the gear broke on my car.
I feel sad about an event I can not influence.
When I was six years old, my favourite cat died.
When my grandparents moved to another part of the town.
Not winning a medal in the swimming contest.
My girlfriend gave me the mitten (left me).
When I heard that my friend had started drinking beer.
"There was a conflict of interest between me and a close friend of á
mine.  He only thought about his own interest and not about our á
friendship.  This behaviour hurt his friends.  Another incident á
is when a friend isolated himself without giving any re"
"When I began to read a thick book, which I had a limited time to á
read.  Also when I have a lot of work to do and I cannot keep up."
Finding out that my best friend could not go to university.
I received a letter form home telling me that my sister was very sick.
Death of my father; he died of laryngeal cancer.
Failing examn.
My mother's death.
"My sweetheart left me, or rather we decided to break it off by á
mutual consent.  The consequences were - unrestrained weeping, á
feelings of loneliness, hopelessness and disconsolation.  I felt á
that I should find a friend, to talk to joyfully and to fo"
Failing an examination.
"Iqam chosen for your lecture and my best friend is not. Now he is á
angry with me and I cannot help him."
"I had a schoolmate who went to the hospital as her brain was á
bleeding.  She fell unconscious for three days and when I went á
to see her I saw the miserable state the family was in.  Moreover á
I could not do nothing for her.  I was very sad.  Finally, "
"Realizing that school will soon be over, and we will all go á
different ways, perhaps never meeting again our friends from this á
year."
"[ When after a night of sleeping in another's arms, one wakes á
alone and knows that the lonely arms of the night are not the á
same that one meets in the morning.]"
"I heard that a friend had died in an accident; group situation: á
suddenly a friend came in and said ""Have you already heard á
that...""; there was a terrible consternation, silence, then á
everybody shouted excitedly ""How could that happen...""."
"My child, unexpectedly started acting in a restless and á
disturbing way at school.  In addition his performance at school á
weakened."
"My son's mother told me that she wanted to move to Vienna and á
take the child with her. This means a rather long distance for á
me. My whole family was sad and dumbfounded so that my own á
feelings were intensified."
"When I am alone in a room with no contact with anyone - á
loneliness drains me."
"I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes á
came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents á
attention by talking to them."
The death of a close friend.
A girl I love does not love me.
"I would have liked to go out to chat with some acquaintances, but á
I realized that I was not wanted.  I felt hurt, disappointed, á
lonely and deserted."
"I heard of the death of a closefriend of mine.  I had gone camping        á
with him shortly before his death and the whole thing seemed very  á
sudden to me. "
After an operation I had to stay in bed for a long time.
When I was told that my friend's wife had cancer.
[ No response.]
"A and I were walking along the new Asia stairway to the Chung Chi á
college for our lecture and I saw him with her.  He put one arm á
around her shoulder and laugher brightly and joyfully.  I did not á
dare and did not want to look, just walked by them qu"
My grandfather died, when I was an exchange student in the USA.
"When the grandmother of my friend died in a hospital. My friend á
was crying and I was sad, too."
"My guinea-pig had been ill for a couple of days.  One evening, á
when I came home I enquired as to how it was doing.  My mother's á
expression told me that it had died.  My knees refused to support á
me and I began to weep convulsively."
When I am at home alone.
My partner left me after we had been together for a long time.
My father gave money to my brother but not to me.
"I wrote a letter to my boyfriend but he couldn't answer it in á
time so as a defence mechanism I just found that I felt so sad á
about it and couldn't talk to anyone."
Death of a relative.
Due to some reasons my boyfriend and I decided to separate.
Talking to a pensioned and bitter "street order" policeman.
"Recent break-up of seriors long-term relationship, helped along á
by would-be  in-laws."
When my grandmother died. I had lived with her for ten years.
General Ye Jianying died.
Lost my girl-friend.
When my grandmother died - at her funeral.
"When my sister left to go home, in Sweden, after the Christmas á
Holidays."
"I met again a very good friend after a year and realized that á
there had grown a certain distance between us."
"I had asked the teacher to write a recommendation letter for me, á
but I had not provided enough information and had run short of á
time."
Saw a father beating up his small child.
My boy-friend an I seperated on his initiative.
Saw the village I come from still pay money to buy wife.
My best friend was not chosen for the English lectures.
When a girlfriend left me.
"My father had a complicated operation. A long time before and á
also a long time after that, we did not know how he would get á
over it. During all that time I felt very sad."
"As a ten-year-old I was at the funeral of my grand-father.  It was more á
the ceremonies held in the church and not really the death of my á
grand-father which made me sad."
When my grandmother died.
A friend misunderstood me.
[ No reponse.]
When my grandfather died.
"I was on my way back from the Inter Rail, on board the ferry from á
Stockholm when my father called me at 7 o'clock to tell me that my á
uncle had died and that I would be seeing him off on his final á
journey within four days."
Death of my grandmother.
The quarrel between my  parents.
[ No response.]
My teacher's death.
My parents told me that they do not like my friend.
"After having left the company of someone who gave me a lot of á
support and made me laugh, found myself alone for days on end."
When I heard that a good friend had committed suicide.
When one's studies seem hopelessly difficult and uninteresting.  
"When I failed an exam last Summer.  I had worked very hard for it á
and I was very disappointed thinking that it was hopeless to á
continue at college.  I did overreact."
When I woke up after a nightmare.
When I learnt that I had been betrayed by my friend.
"I lead a rather secure life.  The only thing I can remember is a á
song from the nineteenth century which is against alcohol.  Both á
the melody and the word (although naive) effected my emotions."
 [ No response.]
"I was very sad when I heard that my brother had failed the á
standard 8 exams for the third time."
Death of a close friend.
Not getting the reference paper.
"Last year when I worked during the Summer holidays and studied á
at the same time for an examination I had to repeat; my boyfriend á
went to Greece for a holiday for a month."
I did not quite succeed in breast feeding my baby.
"When I noticed obvious marks of old age (in a negative sense) on á
a close relative of mine."
"I was very sad when I heard that my uncle had passed away á
untimely at home."
"When my grandmother died. I had a very deep relation to her (I á
lived with her for several years)."
"I received a message that my elder brother was involved in a car á
accident and was admitted in hospital."
I had drunk a couple of beers and my fiancee got angry at me.
I was sad when I saw that a beautiful girl was not attainable.
[ No response.]
"Several years ago my brother died in an accident. When I heard á
about it, I was very sad. It took years until I resigned myself á
to it."
My sweatheart were away on a trip, and then she got problems.
[ Same as in anger.]
"When I was younger I was very good in apparatus gymnastics. I á
always won in competitions, but once I was only at the fourth á
place."
Lecturers being unfair to me in reports.
I was very sad when I heard that my Auntie had passed away.
"Watching an old lady running up the street to catch her bus and á
miss it, it reminded me of my own mother and how dreadful it á
would be to be her in the same situation."
"One of my class-mates had a disease unexpectedly, he had been in á
a coma for six days in a hospital before he died."
When my boyfriend openly let me down, preferring another girl.
Not being able to do well to be chosen for the English lecture.
Love problems.
"When my uncle died whom I had loved very much. I was very sad and á
I felt totally helpless."
When I forgot the lyrics during a song contest.
"I was on a class excursion, by boat to Stockholm.  At night my á
class mates prepared to clebrate their motive in life which was á
""life is merriment"".  I felt depressed about the way they sought á
happiness."
When my ex-boyfriend and I separated.
"I have been thinking of changing my major for a few months.  My á
original major was Chinese language and it blocks my way.  I have á
to face many problems at the sametime and I do not know what is á
real and virtuous.  I do not know if I am not intereste"
"When the guy I was in love with told me that he had met someone á
else and that we would not meet again for a year.  Although we á
did not have a steady relatioship, we were having an affair."
My friend not allowed to go to the English lectures.
"Losing close people and animals. So far, I've felt most when á
losing our dog in a traffic accident."
My father dying.
My sister marrying a bad man. He is cruel to her.
"At the begining of a new course one is afraid of encountering á
problems one can not manage.  Thoughts revolve around failing á
the subject and the consequences it would have for the future."
"When I heard that my father had passed away. I could not eat for á
a week and was only crying. I could not find the courage to go to á
bath."
[ No response.]
"I met some nice people during my holdidays. When they left I knew á
that I would never see them again."
When a close friend died.
When another person's mother died.
Disappointed by a friend.
Death of General Ye Jianying.
"My father died unexpectedly at the age of 53 years. He certainly á
would have liked to live longer. I was also said because I was á
confronted with the fact that I would die one day too."
Breaking up with a girl.
"I worked for seven months in a factory, and made friends with a á
fellow worker.  Later, I visited my former fellow workers and was á
told that, while in the army, my friend had shot himself."
The death of my father.
"When my grandfathers died and I realized how much I would miss á
them."
"When I found that my ability to do ordinary work was worse than á
my fellow mates."
The death of a close relative.
"Talking to a very good friend who had just had a very bad á
experience which was changing his whole way of looking at life á
etc."
"When I was a child I had a grass-parakeet I liked very much. His á
legs were crippled so that he could not move very fast. Once I á
came into the room, did not notice him and stepped on him. A few á
days later he died."
"My sister won a scholarship to Norway and it was particularly as á
she walked across the tarmac to get on the plane and she looked á
back at us."
"When I went home on holidays I found that my niece and nephew had á
passed away I was very sad for the children were not even sick á
before death but suddenly died."
When I was not accepted as a student in finance and accounting.
Not getting a job.
When my dog died.
"When I was ill and had to stay at the hospital for a period of á
time.  "
When my grandmother died after a long illness.
"Two little children (5/6 years old) begging for money, and noone á
gave them money."
"My father won't be so pleased with me as if I was elected ""Three á
Good""."
"The fact that my mother is getting married again (my mother and á
father divorced about 15 years ago) means that she will probably á
move to Turku, and our home, which is a one family house, will be á
sold (I myself have not been living at home for the pa"
"My little cat which I had raised all by myself, hanged itself when á
playing in the garden."
"During the Physics experiment session I did not understand the á
content of the experiment and did not know how to do it."
Insulted by my mother.
At set-backs.
"At a lack of love of my father for my mum, sadness for him more á
than anyone else because he does not realise how much love and á
happiness there could be between them, and is, and how much he is á
damaging himself apart from mum."
My grandfather's death.
Did badly in an examn.
When I failed an exam.
When my car froze, and I could not start it.
"Several years ago my mother died. She had been ill for a long á
time, but nevertheless her death came unexpectedly. I did not and á
I still do not want to believe that it is true."
"When I feel helpless after having tried to help someone without á
any result."
"When my grandfather died, I saw my grandmother crying against my á
aunt's shoulder (I had never seen my grandmother cry before)."
"In 1977, my grandfather, to whom I had a very close relationship, á
died."
"I knew a girl so lovely that everyone would like her.  But she á
refused to accept my Christmas present and I tried to forget á
her."
"Got a package from my parents, without even a small note á
enclosed."
"My father had a heart attack when I was not at home (I was still á
living with them).  He recovered relatively well although he had á
to retire (which implied relief from the stress of a small scale á
enterprise)."
"I suddenly found that those whom I considerered to be my good á
friends did not care for me.  Although I could still be with them á
I felt unimportant.  I deeply thought about the reason behind á
this so as to see who was responsible for this.  Finally I "
When my cousin passed away.
When my grandmother died.
"When my grandfather died. When I heard about his death, I had a á
bad feeling in my stomach and I felt as if I had lost something á
very precious."
My grandmother died suddenly last summer.
Not getting on with someone of my classmates in high school.
"When I understood that my marriage was falling apart, and we á
decided to be legally separated."
The death of my grandmother.
"Whenever I read or think about the way people treat animals and á
nature."
"When I learnt that I had to repeat the first year, I found the á
solution immediately but was blocked by many difficulties."
"When I had to move away from home to study, and I knew that I á
would not be coming back home for a long time."
My father told me in the letter that my mother is ill.
"When I heard about the death of somebody I liked very much and I á
was not present either to see the person or to try to share my á
emotions with other friends."
"When I recently thought about the hard work it takes to study, and  á
how one wants to try something else.  When I read a theoretical á
book in English that I did not understand."
Railway station good-bye.
"My examination results were not satisfactory even though I had á
tried my best.  Then I started wondering about my abilities for á
the major subject.  However I did not know how to choose my major á
subject if I were to change it."
"When I realized that I could not communicate properly with my á
closest friend."
After my boyfriend and I had separated.
I lost my purse that had money in it. I was sad until I found it.
Death in the close family.
"When I was told that I had not been successful in getting the job I á
had been expecting.  I was sure that I was sufficiently á
qualified."
When one of my cat died of a disease.
My friend still trusts me as a friend.
My girl-friend left me.
When my grandmother passed away.
"When I was eight years old my father was run over by a car. When á
I saw his body I was sad beyond words."
"When my grandmother died; I had a stronger relation to her than á
to my mother."
"When I watched the T.V programme called ""The living planet"" and á
saw the far reaching environmental destruction caused by man."
"When I didn't get a certain job at Lillehammer which I wanted á
very much."
"When I crashed my car and it had to be scrapped then.  It was my á
fault and I feel depressed as I miss the car."
"I had been separated from my girlfriend for about a year.  On her á
birthday I put a present in her mailbox.  I had spent two days á
choosing a suitable present for her.  I waited for a few days and á
there was no reply from her; at last I received a than"
"The long lasting illness of my grand-mother, and the changes in á
family relationships caused by it."
"I made a long-distance call to people rather close to me and I á
thought about the sad incident that had happened to them in the á
near past; I knew that they were thinking about it too when I made á
the call."
When my grandmother died of cancer.
Finding out that the girl I like does not like me.
"My girlfriend who had spent 6 months abroad broke off our á
relationship by letter."
"When I was in lower six class during the Summer I joined a á
research group of the Chinese university student union.  I knew á
a lot of CV students there.  A year later one of them was á
travelling in mainland China and he got T.B.  He died a few weeks á
"
"My academic result was poor and I had to repeat the second year.  á
I felt sad about the coming several years."
"A friend told me about his cousin who is my girlfriend. He said á
she had treated him in a mean and nasty way. I was surprised á
because in front of other people she had always treated him in a á
friendly way. I am very sad about it."
"When my best friend promised to come at my house and I had to á
prepare so many expensive things for her but only to learn at á
last that she would not turn up."
"I separated with the one I liked most.  She refused all my dates á
and told me that she had dated another one.  My heart seemed to á
cease beating.  I was silent for some time and then I whispered á
goodbye and left without turning back."
When my grandfather died.
"Finding out about the university does not have enough foreign á
currency to buy the yournals in your reference list."
When a colleague failed to contact me at the arranged time.
Being misunderstood by friends.
When I could not do anything because of a bad back.
I felt sad when my father was sick.
"My cat died from an illness.  It had been with us for 7 years.  á
It was a lovely cat.  It had been ill for one or two weeks and á
the veterinary surgeon had told us that it was dying."
"When I heard about the death of Frantois Truffaut, the French motion  á
picture director, on the radio.  I had planned to go and see his á
last film."
My sister bkoke her leg.
"I received the mid-term exam paper of one of my major subjects á
and I found that I had failed it."
Not being accepted by classmates in university.
When out of work.
"I had to leave my girlfriend for 4 weeks because of my studies. á
This happens frequently. The last 24 hours before my departure á
are always very depressing."
[ Laziness makes one sad.]
"When my grandfather was sick, and died I felt more sad, though, á
when he was sick."
"In May 18th, 1984 my boyfriend went to the U.S.A. In December I á
was told he passed away. He had cancer of the Oesophagus."
"My best friend had a relatively severe illness.  I was sad á
because she was suffering."
"In 1983, my results at the university entrance exam were very á
poor - far from what I had expected.   I thought that I would not á
be accepted at the university."
Loneliness, being uncertain of myself in the Autumn.
I was sad to hear that my brother had a motorbike accident.
"When I think that I will probably never have a genuine contact á
with my parents."
When my boyfriend took me to his father's grave.
"Finding out that we cannot have good references because China is á
poor."
My friend has to go on field trips, he just told me.
Getting to know that my uncle in America had a brain tumor.
Marriage crises.  Boredom.
[ No response.]
[ No response.]
"When I came to know that my grandmother had died.  She was very á
close to me."
"When I found out that I had failed to pass my exams during the á
term by one point.  The fact that exactly the same thing had á
happened last term did not help."
"It was extremely sad to me when I heard that a patient who I was á
taking care of in hospital had passed away. He had some abdominal á
pains."
"When my dad gives priority to my kid brother's band and his á
other activities.  We both play in different bands and rehearse á
in my parents garage."
"The breaking up of a relationship.  We decided that the á
relationship could not carry on, so it was no surprise to me. á
And anyhow, I had known it would happen sooner or later."
"My mother suffers from a mental illness.  One night she was not á
feeling well and was sent to the hospital.  I was scared that á
she would die, and all night I was very sad and did not dare to á
close my eyes."
Finding out I am not chosen for the English lectures.
My boyfriend didn't turn up after promising that he was coming.
"When I came to know that a girl I was fond of already had a á
boyfriend."
"When I see children on T.V from areas devastated by drought and á
war."
The loss of the woman who loved me most till today.
"When my grandfather died I was extremely sad.  However my family á
members did not have any special feelings, they said that he was á
already 80 years old."
One of my best friends was hurt by a girl he loves.
"When my daughter had problems with her friends and I could see á
her predicament from the window.  She was given a the cold á
shoulder."
"Not succeeding in a cross-country skiing competition, which I á
intended to win."
"A colleague's 17 year old daughter is seriously ill with cancer á
and has only a year to live.  I  heard about it 6 weeks ago."
When my girlfriend left me.
"I felt very sad when I had to give up something that by right was á
mine and although I didn't get it, a kind of suvenir that people á
don't give you the right to have."
"When I was in primary 6, my father died.  I was very young then á
and did not know what had happened.  The weeping of my relatives á
and my tears made me sad."
I realized that the girl I loved had to leave me.
Treatment to become pregnant with a negative result.
Cooks refused to give me food.
"The thought of having to read a boring book of 400 pages in á
English."
"I had a very short term romance during the summer vacations.  When á
we first met I felt excited but I wanted to avoid him after we had met á
a few times and so I proposed that we stay apart, I felt very á
sad then."
"Hearing about developments of sience in the West a lot better á
than China."
"In my penultimate job I was responsible of a sections with á
several employers, after several years of dedication I was á
dismissed by a new chef, saying that I was incompetent."
"I heard that a former superior of mine had died, I was later at á
home home reading about it in the newspaper and I thought of our á
interaction and how it was no longer possible.  The limited scope á
of human life is sad."
When I first heard that Tage Dannielsson had died.
"Last night I did not do very well in one of the subjects.  Before á
the result was announced I feared that I would fail.  Finally I á
got a D and as the results of the other subjects were not all      á
good I felt a little sad."
"My grandfather died. He lived almost as a recluse not caring for á
himself as well as he should - Dad and we all helped as much as á
we could, but it didn't save him from himself. It was an á
unexpected death. His second de facto wife was lucky she wasn't"
Father lost his temper at home because he was mistreated at work.
"When my aunt, whom I had loved very much, died. When I heard á
about her death, I was not as touched as at the funeral. I really á
became conscious of her death at that moment."
"A friend of mine called me when I was not at home.  I phoned her á
back to know what she wanted and she told me that she had dialled á
the wrong number."
When one is alone and knows that all the others are celebrating.
When my aunt died.
When my father was ill.
"Sometimes, when I'm alone I am seized by this feeling. But it á
always helps me to come round and at the same time to judge if it á
is worth. Very often this feeling is caused to me by people - á
friends who I love and respect."
"When I learnt that a boy I liked had been with a girl for three á
years."
"Summer, heavy rain, storm - I was standing with my face stick to á
the window: the childhood, something was going away forever this á
summer, I was leaving my home, I was going to study in another á
town, for the first time I was leaving my parents, frien"
"My best friend got married and left her home-town to go and live á
in Poona.  After her wedding I felt sad."
When the man I loved decided to leave me forever.
The death of a friend.
"[ When family mmembers or friends blame me for something I am not á
responsible for.  I feel very sad as it was not my fault.]"
"I felt sadness when I remembered my former boyfriend with whom I á
got separated an year ago and when comparing him with my present á
one with whom things are not much of a success."
"The thought that I'll never sit at the school desk again, caused á
a deep grief at the end of my eleventh form."
"My friend got married and went abroad, this made me feel sad and á
lonely."
"My son lives with my parents in the country and I feel this á
feeling always when leaving for Sofia, but the last time it was á
quite strong."
[ When friends and colleagues talk bad about me.]
When my sister died in a fire accident at home.
When I left a man in whom I really believed.
When I had an argument with a friend.
When I missed my train this morning, I felt sad for some time.
At an unjust insult or injure.
"I was to meet a girl in a discotheque.  She was very pretty and I á
was very happy.  But she did not turn up.  Thank God, there were á
some other friends there and I was able to have a more or less á
good time."
"When I am alone and listen to a song which I like very much and á
which I had listened before together with friends."
"Once my friend and I got into into a hot discussion on a very á
controversial topic.  At one point of the argument I disagreed á
with her totally and I took what she was saying as an insult.  So á
I couter-argued and unknowingly hurt her emotionally, I fe"
"At the death of my friend's father and especially as this á
happened ten days before her wedding."
"[ When someone tells me something that hurts me, I feel bad about á
it and also feel sad.]"
When my parents got divorced.
"When I learned that my dad had cancer. I knew he was going to the á
hospital for some tests. My mom told me when she picked me up one á
weekend from CAL to take me home."
"Sometimes I experience sadness for the Sports High School and for á
my unrealized dreams in the sport. Anyway there I spent six years á
of my life."
"I did not do as well as I expected on a chemistry exam. I á
received a score below the average and I thought I had done very á
well."
Guy I cared for went back to Canada to live.
When my elder sister died.
"My brother in law was dying of cancer. To see him wasting away á
was very sad."
When I learned that two of my friends had had a serious car accident.
"When my husband lied to me, tricked me and when I had to leave my á
home."
"A boy I look after for the probation service deliberately á
offended to provoke a reaction from the police."
"I was watching a sunset after my latest boyfriend left me and I á
realized that we would never watch sunsets again, probaly never á
see eachother again and none of it mattered."
When I failed two subjects last year.
"When I learned that a friend of mine had not been speaking to her á
boyfriend for a week after an argument because of unfounded á
jealousy."
"Two years ago my best friend died in an accident, just a day á
before my birthray.  We were very close to each other and I felt á
very sad at loosing a close friend."
After the loss of a close relative.
"When, for example, I left for the first time my parents and I á
went to live in Sofia."
"I last really felt sad when I left home for I was leaving all my á
long time, pre-kindergarten relationships behind."
"When I see people with burns I feel sad, actually I can not even á
express my feelings as I think that they must suffer a lot."
Recently I happened to remain alone for a long time.
"When I heard the last regulation of the socialist govrenment á
concerning pensions."
"Feeling unable to preserve one's ideas and ambitions as innocent á
as they are when you are young."
"When my mother scolded me for something, very insignificant, without á
knowing the real cause of what had happened. "
Getting separated from my girlfriend.
"When I took the B.A exams,I was expecting a 1st class even though á
I had not done very well. When the results came out I felt sad as á
I had missed the 1st class by 12 marks."
When I saw the pictures of the draught in Etiopia.
When my basket ball team lost the qualification at a final.
"I was driving near my girlfriend's house and I decided to keep á
going because it was late and I would be back in the next few á
days anyway. The next day she was killed in a road accident."
When a close friend drowned in the American River.
When my dog was stolen.
"When a good friend with whom I had an intimate relationship made á
clear that he didn't want to continue in the same way. He choose á
his girlfriend (also a friend of mine)."
When I got to know that my father had passed away.
When I failed at the first entrance exam.
"After my little sister's Graduation from High School my á
grandmother became very sick. She passed away a few months later."
"Sadness - this is an emotion which I have felt very often á
recently. I can't remember a concrete example. I will describe my á
general impression from severl situations which evoked this á
feeling in me."
"We had to take our cat to the vet for mercy killing (an á
injection)."
Death of my father.
"For the girl who halped me go on living and made me happy - when á
I don't see her even for two or three days."
"When I heard the news that my brother had passed away.  It was á
the first time that I lost a brother."
[ I feel sad when somebody is unjust to me.]
"Recently I felt very sad without any reason. It lasted for a few á
days. There was nothing I liked in that period."
It happened that I was alone - with no contacts with friends.
The loss of a person I loved very much.
I felt very sad when I heard that a friend had committed suicide.
I remember being sad whe my aunt's child died (2 days old).
"I felt sad when my first boyfriend and I left each other. It was neither á
his fault nor mine."
"Since I moved into the dorms and I've been spending most of my á
free time with my boyfriend. I hardly see my old high school á
friends. I had several bad incidents with my 2 past best friends."
"I felt very lonely, was very dissatisfied with myself when I á
realised that I could feel very jealous of other women because á
of my boyfriend."
"Years ago I fell in love for the first time. as natural for every á
school-girl I was day-dreaming. Later (after 3 years) we left á
each other. No one was to blame but I felt deep sadness. Even now á
I remember about it quite often."
I felt sad when my boyfriend and I were apart for some time.
"When I realized that it did not make much sense to start a á
relationship with a girl who was not very constructive to á
establish a firm relationship."
"My boyfriend is a soldier. He was on a leave. I felt sad when we á
had to get separated again."
"When my boyfriend was changing his behavior there was something á
wrong, I felt sad, because it's desagreable when a relationship á
is ending."
Sadness, no, I felt something much stronger when my father died.
"When I came to know that my feelings for someone were not á
reciprocated."
My grandmother died.
"A close friend of mine was to get married in a weeks time when á
her father died of a heart-attack.  I knew him well and felt bad á
on hearing of his death."
"Some months ago my wife gave birth to twin sisters. She had no á
idea of looking after babies and she felt quite oppressed. The á
fact that I couldn't help her caused grief to me."
When I failed the entrance exam to IMEC.
"I tried my level best to care for my client, I took an á
appointment with a doctor and before meeting the doctor he á
expired - a poor small boy from Uttar Pradesh."
[ When my elders do not understand me in the right way.]
From the fact that my husband and I are not in good terms.
"I finished the relationship with my boyfriend, after having felt á
myself very unhappy for a long time."
"I was very sad when I could not take the M.A (I) exams due to á
illness, and a relative of mine disheartened me about it."
At an irrevocable loss (with respect to human relations).
When my brother's visa for the U.S.A got cancelled.
"After blowing up and saying all the wrong things, I realized what á
I had done and hurt that person and myself."
"I had a good relationship with two friends. Once without reason, á
they clearly showed that they thought I was naive, dull and á
unable to take care for myself, while I expostulated that I could á
manage things."
"My dear hamster (called Hannes) died at the age of 2 and 1/2 years. á
His shape forced me to mercy killing (an injection)."
"My son lives in the country. I feel sadness when I see mothers á
having walks with their children."
"When I received the news that my beloved grandmother had died.  I á
was at the boarding school and was only 13 years old."
"Alone I am coming back home in the night after the serial á
""explanation""."
"My mother unjustly became very angry with me and sent me to my á
room while my father explained that the way she saw things was á
not correct. I had done things with the best intentions."
When my sister left home to go and live with her husband.
I lost a close friend.
"One night I was called and told that the father of a close friend á
died. When I visited my friend at home and when attending the á
funeral I felt very sad."
"When a close friend of mine who was with me in first year could á
not make it to the second year."
When I heard my sister got in a bad car accident.
"When I feel I must be with somebody, to talk with somebody - but á
I am alone."
"We are several friends but our characters are very different and á
we inevitably split in the two extremes. It is sad that I myself á
don't know what to do, I try not to hurt either of the ""parties"" á
because there are conflicts to which one I should belo"
At a prolonged separation with my family.
"When I read the diary of the girl with whom I was living, it was á
about another boy with whom she had been going around some time back."
"I am filled with gloom and sadness at the death of a person.  á
More specifically, I felt sad after hearing the news of a á
death of a person who was hale and hearty and full of life, withá
vigour and plans for the next day but had no next day to cherish "
"One of the greatest sadness was when my grandfather died, because á
I loved him very much."
When I knew I had to go out with my mother on some errands.
When I heard the news of my grandfather's sudden death.
"For not having succeded in getting the job as a translator that I á
wanted."
"The death of Jaya Prakash Narayan caused a great deal of sadness á
as I believed that he was the only true democrat and a ray of á
hope on the Indian horizon."
"After a disagreement between my parents, when I was alone with my á
father and my sister, the aggression continued, when my father á
tried to put me and my sister against my mother revealing facts á
that had happened in the past like a talk between my fat"
"My mother was working with a knife and we were all laughing á
heartily.  She was not able to control the knife and stuck it á
deep into her hand."
"When I was in Bombay one of my good friends was getting married á
and he had not informed me about it, this made me sad."
"I was watching television. It was about midnight when a very dear á
friend called saying that his father had died in an accident."
"I feel sadness from the fact that I was not born with a better á
appearance."
"When I thought for an instant that a very good relationship with á
a person had finished."
When my grandmother died.
"My close friend and I applied to TISS for admission last year, á
unfortunately he failed to get admission.  We had done our graduation á
together and are quite involved with each other, so we had wanted á
to do our Masters degree together.  However, it di"
"In a social situation I became interested in a woman. We talked, á
we laughed, we enjoyed each other. She desappeared for a few á
minutes, and a little after appeared with an other man."
When someone in my family died.
When my beloved girlfriend got married to another person.
When I felt lack of aid from close friends.
When my grandfather died.
I didn't get the job I wanted.
When India lost the Benson and Hedges cricket trophy.
When I got separated from the woman I loved.
The disqualification of two of my mates in the military service.
"All my friends arranged to go for an afternoon snack and they did á
not tell me.  They told me that they did not have my phone number á
but I do not think that this was true."
"When I received my results and found out that I could not go to a á
school of my choice."
"I was having breakfast with a classmate and suddenly I began to á
cry as I thought of a friend of mine whom I had not seen for a á
long time."
When I had to come back from my village last Christmas.
"When my mum's brother passed away after having been involved in a á
car accident.   He was bringing me a present as I had passed my á
form five exams with flying colours."
[ When I feel that I have made a mistake.]
When I felt alone and without love.
When I noticed that I do many things to the pregiudice of myself.
"A few months a close relative of mine died.  I had never expected á
this to happen and was sad for a few months."
"[ During a summer holiday a French girl and I had becoe back á
home, I felt very sad.]"
When my dog died.
"I have a very close friend who lives in another city and we have á
been writing to each other for a long time.  The last time I went á
to her city, just to see her, I was disappointed to see how great á
the distance between us was."
"My sister lost one of her twin sons (my first nephews) and then á
the older one died a week later."
"When I received the S.Y.J.C results, the marks I obtained were á
not up to my expectations and I missed admission in engineering."
"When a friend of mine told me that he was going to commit á
suicide."
"The day that the results of the college entrance examinations for á
the S. Paulo University were published and I didn't find my name á
on the list. Entering this University was my greatest wish, and  á
the fact of not having succeded caused a great frustr"
"One day I heard from a friend that the boy I loved had gone out á
with her and not with me."
"The saddest moment in my life was when I lost my younger sister a á
few years back."
"I felt sadness when I notice that I'm not important for a á
determinate person. We do many things for a friend, and we see á
soon after, that he doesn't do anything for us, nor thinks of us."
"My father resigned from work, and soon after this his elder brother á
died.  The next day my granny died (my mother's mother).  My dad á
remains the only living member of his family."
When they told me that my grandfather was rather ill.
"I am always sad when my boyfriend goes away. He lives and studies á
in an other city. We have gone steady for 2 and 1/2 years and á
everything is going very well, but sometime this situation makes á
me feel bad and very lonely."
"I was in love with a girl but had to separate from her because of á
different commitments concerning life and career.  I loved her as á
a person but could not agree with the life the future would á
demand.  Parting from her was very sad."
"One night a very dear person said: ""I hate you"". Of course it was á
an impulse and this person didn't feel that about me. The person á
expressed regret, and everything was settled, but I can't forget."
"When I saw the film ""Johnny got his gun"" which deals with the á
consequences of the Vietnam war."
A break-up with someone I really liked.
"The news of the natural calamity, an earthquake in which hundreds  á
of Mexican people died."
"The day I was to receive my gold-medal for the M.A, my á
grandmother, who I loved very much, died after an illness.  She  á
died a few hours before the convocation.  While I was á
attending the convocation I had to control my grief as she would á
not have"
"My brother wanted me to buy a flute with him but I didn't accept á
afterwards I regretted it because he became sad."
"After having been ill, when I was coming back to the hostel, I á
felt very sad leaving home."
When a class-mate died.
"A sudden doubt made me run for a long time in a rainy autumn á
night. When I reached the intended place I saw my beloved in á
another man's arms. A sudden blow, grief, I cannot qualify it, it á
is painful for me to remember about it."
When I got a message that my child was not feeling well.
"When my sister lost her only son, who was sixteen years old.  I á
felt very bad about it as this was the first death in my family á
and then I learned slowly to understand to life."
When my dog died.
When I quarrelled with my boyfriend.
"When I had stayed abroad for a long time and I had remembered á
about my friends and relatives. I felt sad and I wanted to see á
them as soon as possible."
When my mother left for Kenya.
The death of a relative, friend, or someone I esteem.
"For the loss of a close friend or relative, but you feel grief á
when you are away from home, too."
"I phoned two friends and was not able to arrange a meeting with á
either of them, so I had to change my plans."
"I was sad at the expulsion of some of my comrades during the UNZA á
demonstrations."
When my last relation broke up.
The loss of a very good friend.
When my grandmother died.
"The same as for SHAME and DISGUST. I was asked to resign my á
sorority which I did because I was ashamed."
"I feel sad when I see things done against men and nothing could á
stop it - at least I think so."
"Three weeks ago a friend of mine bid me good-bye before going á
abroad.  I felt happy for her as she was achieving something by á
making the trip, but I also felt sad as I would not be seeing her á
for a long time."
When my grandfather died.
"A class-mate died after being two months in coma, after a car á
accident."
"I put in two years of hard work and it was neither looked at nor á
appreciated."
"My brother is a soldier. He promised to come home in a furlough á
but in the last moment he phoned and said that he could not come."
[ Depressions.]
"When I felt powerless to help the poor or when I don't know how á
to."
I couldn't be with a girl on whom I was very keen.
"On the last day of my school life I was very sad, specially on á
the farewell party day.  I felt sad to leave behind my beloved á
teachers and friends."
"When someone I love told me that she did not love me anymore and á
that she wanted all the snaps that she had given me in exchange á
for the ones I had given her."
The sudden death of one of my parents.
"Getting separated from my family for a week caused me a sense of á
sadness."
"I have once been very sad and lonely.  This was when I was trying á
to organize a play as a student (15 years).  Instead of á
materializing, it fizzled out.  The worst thing was that the play á
fell apart completely and I found myself weeping uncontrollab"
"I feel sadness when I only imagine that I could lose a close á
person. Some time ago I lost a man whom aI greatly respected."
"A child, 9 years old, died in a stupid way.  He fell from a place á
which was 1 metre high."
"When I received the news that my in-laws had passed away.  I á
depended heavily on them for their guidance and the running of á
their daughter's buisness."
"When I left my boyfriend. I found another girl at his home but he á
did nothing to relieve the situation."
When my mother was operated.
When my honest intentions were marred by another's jealousy.
I got separated form my closest friend. He went to work abroad.
When I had to leave home to go to some other place to study.
"I saw a friend of mine who had suffered a very heavy contusion á
after an accident."
"My living and working conditions at home were unbearable. We used á
to live in a three room flat together with two more families. The á
discords caused a change - one of the families moved out. The á
other family stayed with us but I drifted away from my "
"My elder sister whom I love very much was leaving for the          á
West Indies for two years and I was staying behind."
When I couldn't find my dog which was missing.
When my parents did not let me go on a study tour.
"When I heard the news of the death of my father.  It was in the á
evening and I was alone all night in my room trying to remember á
the face of my father."
"A close friend decided to stop with his study and to go back á
home."
"When summer is over and I have to leave the town where I spend my á
holidays."
"A friend of mine who was driving a car ahead of me died in a á
car accident."
"I was really hoping that I would pass the examination, but I á
failed and so I felt very sad."
The death of an animal we had reared.
"When I learnt that my brother-in-law had been poisoned by his á
friends and that he was dead."
"When my first boyfriend left me. I tried not to let him á
understand I felt miserable."
"I had a quarrell with my boyfriend and decided to finish with him á
and and my Easter holidays."
When I left my part-time job.
"When my grandfather whom I had met only once for 3 weeks, died á
after several months. I was really sad because he was a lovely á
person and I did not have the means for his company."
When my grandmother passed away.
"When I learned that my former boyfriend had become engaged - á
although I was glad that he had found what he wanted, I was very á
sad at my own personal loss, since I had always hoped we might á
one day reconcile."
"I suffer form a disease of my muscles. However, I cannot talk á
about it and my feelings, the consequence with my parents. They á
try to repress it."
When my grandfather died.
My roommate's sister committed suicide.
"This sounds really predictable and usual but it was absolutely á
heart-rending at the time. My first lover (I was 15) just rang up á
one day and announced that he had found another woman. I never á
saw him again and it hurt because I was positive that it "
"I found a baby opposum on the road and took it home and cared for á
it for a week. It had to be force-fed and carried in a fur pouch á
under my jersey. My father had the vet put it to sleep as he said á
they carried diseases."
"When it suddenly appeared that our dog was dangerously ill and á
probably would die. We had not expected this because he á
was always very healthy. Fortunately he survived because we, in turn, á
gave him medicines during the night."
"When I found out that my girlfriend would not be coming back to á
UCB for one semester, but would be living in San Jose."
"During the funeral of my grandmother, when I saw my mother and á
other family members crying."
"I was in a hopeless situation in a dirty place. No study, no á
work, only loneliness."
"While still at school a friend died of cancer, after being ill á
for a long time, she was 17 yrs old."
"A) A documentary in which baby fur seals were being á
clubbed/spiked to death by Canadian seal-hunters. Brutally á
graphic.
B) Description of a disfigured orphaned child in Hiroshima á
calling for her mother."
"My grandmother died over the summer. I knew her very well, she á
baked great biscuits. She was in the hospital but expected to á
improve and go home soon. She died in her sleep."
"When I caused much pain and sorrow to my boyfriend by finishing á
our relationship."
"My father recently having a heart attack - spending a few months á
in hospital."
A close friend of the family died.
Caused a family disturbance.
"My father suddenly fell ill. He stayed for 3 months in the á
hospital: the last month on intensive care of the Academic á
Hospital, then he died."
"Social situation - at the pub - a close friend of 2 years told á
the group around us of advances I had made."
I like someone who does not like me and was rude to me.
My friend who was in the Bago was kicked out of the sorority.
"When my parents separated temporarily and I was left behind with á
my father.  As I loved my mother I wanted to go with her."
"When I got into an argument with someone and was very abusive, á
but they were a close friend and I later regretted it."
When grandfather died.
"My younger brother and sister were involved in an accident on á
their way back from school and my brother was quite badly hurt."
"At one point in a relationship, my boyfriend was seeing an old á
flame more than me. At our confrontation tears were shed."
"At the death of my husband's father's mother which occurred á
during university examinations and therefore I was unable to á
attend her funeral."
The dying of a close member of the family.
When my mother was very sick and almost died.
On rising. No apparent reason.
"A friend of mine got pregnant anf failed the first year at á
university.  The boyfriend refused his responsibility and they á
ended up in court."
My fiancT left me for my best friend.
When my uncle died of leukemia at age 35.
"This monday I took a Math 1BS test and flunked for the second á
time."
"My mother was unwell and went for many cancer tests. She spent á
time in hospital being opened and closed many times."
When I failed the grade seven examination.
When I first suffered from syphilis.
"I wanted something in particular and did not get it, also there á
was no possibility of getting it."
"At the end of my senior yr. in high school I found out that a á
friend of mine I knew had cancer had been diagnosed as terminally á
ill."
"When a close relative of mine passed away, it was the first time á
that someone so close to me had died."
"Close friend leave to go overseas for an indefinite period. á
Farewell scene at airport."
"My elder brother had been expelled from college and he was so á
frustated that he attempted suicide - he drank bottle fragments.  á
I was very sad when I learnt this."
"When a pet died. The pet was the closest friend I had for 15 á
years."
Watching suffering in Third World country.
"When one of my closest friends failed to make it to the third á
year of university."
My cat died painfully and slowly.
"When my father passed away in 1978.  I was left alone with my á
mother who was very sick so I had to go and live with my aunt, who á
is very short tempered, till my mother was discharged from the á
hospital."
I was told that a friend of a friend committed suicide.
"A person I really like left for overseas for a few months, I had á
hoped to go out with her soon."
"When an uncle of mine, who was close to me, passed away after á
having had a stroke, before his first daughter could be named."
I was forced to leave an unforgettable friend.
"The girl I was seeing didn't want to have a serious relationship. á
"
"Losing my girlfriend who made an end to our relationship. By this á
I lost an important source of support, certainty and joyful á
moments. I cried very intensly when that happened."
You ignored the fact that we could not hear you at the back.
"Saying goodbye at the airport to my boyfriend who has to go to á
school back East. We are very close and have been together 4 á
years."
When they gave away my dog to other people without my knowledge.
"I felt very sad when I left home because I could not stand it any á
longer. I do not regret it, but I missed my little sister very á
much (and she missed me). These feelings wear off over time."
"I spent a weekend in San Diego visiting my boyfriend Rob. We were á
at the airport and my plane was just about so leave. After saying á
goodbye, I boarded the plane. It was the hardest thing to do and á
it was a sad trip home."
[ The same as in guilt.]
The day I left my first girlfriend.
"My boyfriend with whom I had a longlasting relationship, fell in á
love with another girl, then he asked me something which implied á
that he loved that girl more than he loved me."
Hearing of the death of a friend who had been skiing.
"Losing my job that I had for 4 summers. I took it personally and á
cried for 6 hours off and on. I wanted to hide away and did for a á
few days."
A child beaten up by his mother.
"I felt very sad when my boyfriend wanted to break our á
relationship. Our relationship lasted two years, we shared á
everything and all this was finished."
"When my dog died.  I had reared it for nearly three years.  It á
had been ill for several days and had not eaten anything.  One á
morning I found it dead."
"When my grandmother after staying with us for awhile went back á
home."
"My mother was stuck by an apoplectic fit, was hemi-paralyzed and á
suffered an aphasia."
A father of 4 children killed in an accident.
"I partly colored my hair black. My mother didn't like it and á
reproached me to be a ""subversive element"". Later on she stated á
that this was due to my friends. As I see it, this all resulted á
from colouring my hair."
"My sister was in coma for 3 months (due to a train accident). Now á
her brainfunctions are disturbed. She will never be able to walk á
and she can hardly talk."
After receiving the grade on the paper mentioned in FEAR.
"When my grandmother died, her life was heavy and her last hours á
were terrible."
"When my boyfriend almost had a relationship with a close friend á
of mine."
"I had to leave Den Helder and all friends and acquaintences, á
after having spend two weeks there with my friends."
"China can not even give you good sound systems for an open á
lecture."
"Death of a pet rabbit. We had to give it away because my brother á
became allergic to it. We gave it to a man who kept animals and á
lots of other animals for children to watch. We went to visit our á
rabbit. It was badly beaten by the other rabbits and e"
"When I was a Sr. in HS. one of the class counselors died of á
hepatitis. She was very sensitive. She knew my shyness and drew á
me out to improve myself image. I missed her funeral - so I could á
not publically grieve. My parents didn't understand."
"When a very close friend of mine went into hospital for a major á
operation and I couldn't see her for a while as I was not a á
relative she had no relatives in N.Z."
Could not get into the university I wanted to get in.
A younger brother of a good friend of mine died (asthma).
"When I found out that I could not go to the concert (after buying á
the tickets) because of a biology test which occurred the morning á
after."
"At the beginning of the year I moved to a new city - I felt sad á
as I had to leave many friends and family members behind."
"At my grandfather's funeral - My grandparents virtually raised me á
as my mother was a solo-parent and had to work."
"Watching a football game. This remindes me of the time when my á
father was still alive and when we watched football games on TV á
together."
My best friend could not get into university.
When I heard the news that my grandfather had died.
"When I was told a friend's baby had been born with only partial á
sight. This was her first child and she was not young (the mother á
that is)."
"The disease and subsequent death of a close acquaintance. Sadness á
was accompanied with feelings of powerlessness (I also á
experienced sadness in the situation described under guilt)."
"When my grandmother died. She stayed with us until I had the age á
of 10. When she died I was 13 and I remember the moment after the á
funeral: I sat on the table and cried."
"Tonight in bed when I realised how bad my relationship with my á
friend was."
"I was together with my family one night, a few days after my á
father had died, during that conversation I expressed my á
displeasure because nobody understands me."
Saying goodbye to a friend.
When the relationship with my girlfriend broke up.
My grandmother died during Christmas break several years ago.
"It was a complex situation concerning a relationship with a á
boyfriend, I had broken the relationship for some reasons. á
Meanwhile, as I felt it, I had most sorrow."
"When a close friend took leave of me, because she went to Israel á
for one year."
My boyfriend decided to make an end to our relationship.
When a friend died.
"When I was trying for a girl who I really liked and cared for and á
thought she felt the same way too. But she didn't like the idea á
and just wanted to stay friends."
I was very sad when my first boyfriend finished our relationship.
"Enrolling at varsity, being told I couldn't get in to certain á
papers."
"When a friend, after being free of drugs for half a year, started á
using them again.á
"
"When I heard that my father had been involved in a car accident á
in Lusaka.  This happened when he had gone to get the car which á
had been stolen in Lusaka."
When my first girlfriend an I left each other.
"When my best friend got a boyfriend. Because of this a á
relationship of ten years was finished abruptely."
"One of my relatives became seriously ill. I felt sad because I á
didn't know if she will ever be the same again."
When I got separated from my first love.
"When I realized the burden it was for my mother to look after all á
of us, all by herself."
"The funeral of a friend who was killed in a car accident. She was á
of my own age, there were many of my own friends present, as well á
as her family etc."
"I ran a race for the CAL track team and I did terribly and then á
the coach said that I should sit out for the season. I felt á
really sad because I wasn't going to be able to run. It was á
something I always had done and now I couldn't do it anymore."
"When I saw my niece (5 yrs) crying in the hallway for her mother á
who had passed away about a month ago."
"I was very sad when I had to leave persons with whom I had a very á
intense relationship I also had to leave the environment which á
was part of this."
A sudden end to the relationship with my first girlfriend.
"My relationship with a boyfriend was finished and I didn't á
succeed a years-course."
"Felt sad about some street kids in QUEII square, Aotea square. á
Because they had been sniffing glue and some were very young. I á
went into the role of a performing clown."
"A very close friend of mine died. I read it in the newspaper. I á
didn't know what to do and thought about it the whole day."
"When my father a 4th/5th generation colonial (from Eng.) attacked á
me verbally about my chosen partner. A man whom he discarded á
because his colour skin was not white. His ultimate disgust á
saddned me."
"I had this feeling when my parents distroyed a relationship with á
a boy because they thought he was bad and irresponsible."
"I received a letter from my grandmother. She has obviusly á
suffered a lot from my grandfather's suffering health. She á
mentioned things she had gotten him and he would never use."
"My dog of 16 and 1/2 years - ""Lord Grey"" died in his sleep - His á
death caused me more and deeper sadness than I thought."
"The death of my mother-in-law after a long sick-bed. at the á
moment of dying I was with her."
When my grandmother died - having to see my mother weep.
When my grandmother died very suddenly without warning.
My grandfather died thirteen years ago.
"I had been living in an overseas city and made the decision to á
leave the city and come home about 12 months before I met a whole á
new set of friends, leaving them at the airport was sad and á
traumatic as they had helped me in many ways and I knew I á
"
"When my grandmother, who has been living with us for 14 years, á
had a stroke and was left paralysed on one side. She has been á
quite close to our family and to see her suffer in this way makes á
me feel really sad."
"When someone I was close to became a paranoid schizophrenic and I á
was unable to see this person because of the situation."
"It made me very sad to hear that some construction company was á
going to build houses on the beautiful hills by my house."
"There is a boy who I love very much. I asked him to have dinner á
with me, but he refused I don't know why he didn't go with me, á
but I felt very lonely."
When my girlfriend decided to finish our relation.
"This feeling was quite deep when my friend (girl) died in a car á
accident."
"When my girl went away for a holiday without saying good-bye to á
me."
"Recent break-up with my girlfriend. We had been together for over á
a year. I was overseas and discovered over the phone (while I was á
at work)."
The loss of a close relative who was ill with cancer.
"I had a quarrel with a good friend about the fact that I didn't á
pay her a visit when she expected me to come. Hereafter I was á
very sad because it became a real quarrel."
"When you are far away from relatives and friends. I feel sad for á
my early years, for the freedom and the carefree years of á
childhood."
When I heard my grandfather's wife had leukemia I was very sad.
"When I noticed that my parents were not in such a prosperity as á
most people in my surroundings."
"When I part with my friends I feel always sad for some time. I á
can't remember a concrete example now. For example I have just á
parted with a friend of mine and I am feeling sad."
"When my girlfriend was afraid and anxious the day before taking á
her exam."
After my father's death.
When I quarrelled with a very close friend of mine.
"Recently, my sister-in-law's horse was poisoned by a plant and á
died. The horse was very obedient and exceptional with children."
"I met a girl some time ago and I cared very much about her but it á
happened so that we left each other. I felt some sort of sadness, I think á
I can call it so."
"I hadn't been at my parent's place for a long time. When I went to á
visit them I had high expectations, but when I was there it was á
very different from what I expected."
"I was going to go on a vacation to Texas this summer but was á
unable to go because of registration."
"When my mother and father were on an excursion in Chechoslovakia á
and I was at a student camp and I heard over the radio about the á
events that were taking place there."
"When I went to see the dead body of my uncle.  This was a very á
dramatic expreience as it was the first time that I entered a á
mortuary."
"I felt sad when a friend of mine died and I felt that something á
had irrevocably gone away from me."
"My nephew's mother just left one day (my brother and she were á
not married). My nephew, Anthony, was shaken. I was sad for him á
because a similar situation happened to me."
"When my gradmother died.  I felt very sad then ... The feeling á
started to be worse after a while."
"Always when I get separated from my friends and relatives from my á
home town."
"When I realized that I was in hospital after a car accident and á
that I had a scleral tear in my left eye."
"So as to be closer to the university I have left home and moved á
into Auckland. It now seems as if I have left home - especially á
my family - forever."
"My mother kicked my surrogate father out and he in turn did not á
care for the dog, Afthur, he bought for the family. His lack of á
concern lead tho Arthur's death on the freeway. I loved Arthur á
like a brother. He was easy to talk to."
"An uncle of mine who just retired, having worked hard all his á
life, got a cerebral hemorrhage."
"My cat was sick and I had to take him to the vet to be put down - á
no one else there to do it."
I asked a girl out on a date and she said no.
"When a close friend of mine collapsed and passed away and the á
illness was not known."
"My girlfriend let me down badly 3 times in one week. These á
instances summed up all the negative aspects of our relationship á
which at the time seemed doomed to fail."
"Losing a boyfriend for the second time to my friend. He fell in á
love with her. The same thing happened a few months earlier with á
another boyfriend."
Leaving high school.
"Departure of a very close friend - for a long stay overseas, á
sharing in the sorrow of her parents who were left behind."
"Listening and watching a tape of someone with AIDS being á
prejudiced against at a counselling course on AIDS with 20 á
others."
When my mother was proved to suffer from a very serious disease.
When my grandfather died.
"Losing a pet chick. Our family had just put the chick outside a á
few days before and then one morning it was gone."
Death of brother.
"Finding out that my grandfather had died. He lived in England and á
I had not seen him for 10 years."
"My paternal grandmother had died. We weren't close but she was á
blood. I didn't cry but I was sad, partly due to her death and á
partly I think, due to the fact that I couldn't/didn't cry."
"4 years ago my family decided to move from New York to á
California. From the time we decided to move until the time we á
left, I realized how much my friends cared for me. When we left á
and for a long time after that I was very sad."
"I have high expectations for my future but if I pursue the á
subject in this manner I will not attain this."
"I was in a car accident on the way back from a weekend rowing á
regatta we'd won. 5 others were in the car. I thought I'd never á
be able to row again."
When my brother (5th in the family) passed away.
"When another fellow worker decided to leave the company. We had á
been very close and we would not be able to work with eachother á
any longer."
When my mother died.
"I felt sad with the two situations I described before. The cat á
and the school. Sadness was intermingled with the other feelings."
"Disappointed love. The girl made an end to our relationship while á
I thought she was in love with me."
"When my boyfriend said he did not want to see me anymore (which á
turned out to be untrue)."
"I had to terminate a training because I wasn't suited for it. I á
was very sad about this, because I very much wanted to finish á
that training."
"Hearing about a friend back home that had to have his stomach á
pumped because he had overdosed on pills."
"My boyfriend finished our relationship when I started studying á
psychology in Nijegen, because then we would not be able to meet á
frequently anymore."
"A good friend of mine died. During the funeral I felt an intense á
feeling of sadness."
When my father passed away.
"My girlfriend wanted to breakup for an indefinite amt. of time. á
She said that she couldn't commit herself fully to the á
relationship without going out with other people. I was her first á
boyfriend."
"When my sister (really my niece) died of cancer at the age of 2 á
yrs after I took her to the doctor at the age of 1 and he á
diagnosed it."
When the mother of a good friend of mine died.
"This occurred when my girlfriend and I have to finish our á
relationship due to some circumstances between her and her á
family. I was really sad, hurt and couldn't really find any á
reason why am I still living. Is this life is all about ? This á
was one"
I felt sadness when my grandfather died.
When boyfriend could not stand up to his mother or for himself.
When my grandmother passed away.
"The end of a relationship (after 4 years) by doing this I hurt á
the other person very much."
Day time robbery of our house.
When my father had a cerebral hemorrhage.
After my father died suddenly of a heart attack.
When my flute-teacher was replaced by a new one.
When my beloved uncle was shot dead by relatives.
"When I did bad on a chamistry midterm which I could have done á
well."
"The saddest I've ever been was when my lover was killed, á
hitch-hiking to work."
"When I finished a relation after four years, leading to much á
sorrow for the other one and myself (""although it was the best á
solution"")."
"Sitting in a bus, I heard behind, the voice of a girl I was á
friendly with. After her talking for some time with another girl á
I decided it wasn't her in fact that someone miming her, which it á
was when I finally looked. I was talking to a friend at th"
"We got news that my (almost) 21 years old brother died while á
visiting Europe of a cerebral hemorhage. It finally hit me an á
hour after we saw his corpse in the coffin. It felt like a door á
between himself and everything had closed and locked forever."
"My girlfriend left the house in which we lived together a few á
months ago. This made me very sad."
"When my grandmother died - I wasn't sad so much that she'd died á
because she was old, but because she lived in the last few years á
in an old people's home and had nothing very much that was hers - á
no chair, or private space, and when I went to visit s"
"When the girl whom I have lusted after expressed reciprocal á
feelings and then days later changed her mind."
"When my father was imprisoned for burning the house of his á
younger brother."
"I felt sadness when I had to get separated from the woman I loved á
who had to leave for her motherland."
"My father died. I was away at the time and did not know until two á
days after."
"I was selected to do a rest for a foreign ballet but I did not á
have the money to do it."
When I got separated from the man I loved so much.
As a child - having a dog - it getting a disease and dying.
"Watching ""11 am"". They had a programme on the starving refugees. á
Their plight was a source of sadness for me."
"I felt alone among a large number of people.  I was sad to see á
that nobody cared about what was happening to me."
When I was ditched by my girlfriend.
"Having to decide on a termination of a pregnancy, after á
discussing it with friends, family and the man involved."
I was very sad at hearing that my grandfather had passed away.
"I left my home in Melbourne to come to Q'land to study and before á
I hopped in the car I hugged my mother and shook hands with my á
father. Sensing immediately my father's sadness, I also had a á
flood of the same emotion."
"This condition accumulated in my mind when funeral news was á
brought to my awareness, that a close relative had passed away."
When I heard that my nephew had passed away.
"I did not like it when a little girl was crying for her dead á
mother and was calling her by her name.  I was sad."
"Upon moving away from home for the first time to a different á
city, I felt no longer ""under the wing"" of my parents even though á
they would always be there to help me. I felt a sense of loss, I á
was now all alone in the world, responsible for my own ac"
"When I missed the chance of becoming a graduate in mining á
engineering, after having prayed one week in the church I was á
not even selected."
"I was very sad when I did not get admission in the English á
college, as I had 1% less marks than they wanted."
The death of my twin sister - suicide.
"A very close friend from Victoria visited me over the holidays. á
Having enjoyed his company immensely over 10 short days, I was á
overwhelmed by sadness when he left to return to Victoria.á
"
"When my nephew was taken to hospital with meningitis and we did á
not know what would happen."
"After studying a lot for my H.S.C exams, I could not make it to á
the medical stream and I felt sad about this."
"I was alone in my parents' house, having made plans to spend the á
afternoon with a lover (plans which the lover cancelled), á
watching a movie and considering my life and circumstances - á
pressures of examinations in particular."
Unrealisation of the desired profession (aviator).
"When I applied for the college entrance examination to FUVEST, á
and I wasn't approved in the second fase."
"My mother died of cancer after a 4 year illness - I think the á
most pregnant moment of sadness was the next morning, just as the á
sun rose."
"The person whom I liked most left me for a friend of mine, after á
several months of mutual help and a profound knowledge of each á
other."
"[ I missed my twin when I was on the verge of being thrown, which á
I disliked.]"
I was alone at home on New Year's Eve.
"When I left my sister's house after staying there for a few days. á
She has two little boys, and they are very warm people (the á
family). At the time, I was in need of this sort of contact, and á
I grew very fond of children (no, I'm not a paedophiliac)."
"The time I lost a badminton match, that I should have won at the á
Zambia closed badminton championships."
When I was at school.
"I slept in a tent at the Barracks which caught fire at night and á
my best possessions got burnt in there."
"Girl I was fond of did not initiate conversation as I expected in á
tutorial."
When my father passed away.
[ No response.]
"The day I woke up to find that a kitten I had wanted to keep had á
been eaten by the neighbour's dogs.  It had been locked out by my á
wife who claimed that it had dirtied the sheets."
"Death of paternal grandmother to whom I was very close - died of á
cancer."
Death of grandfather (unexpected).
[ No response.]
"A friend of mine was hospitalized after having been diagnosed as á
having typhoid, he had to forgo his exams and also his ambition á
of doing a dissertation at the M.A level.  It was a very sad á
event for me and I felt very sorry for him so I volunteered"
"When my mother and father separated (it was a brief separation á
and they are together now)."
[ No response.]
"I was very sad  when I got the XIIth standard results, when I got á
low marks as compared to my friend and I could not get admission á
to courses like medicine."
When I heard that my father had passed away.
"My elder sister scolded me in front of my younger sisters and á
cousins.  She said that I was very lazy and I felt so sad that I á
cried myself to sleep."
When my grandmother died.
"I failed a subject despite the fact that I had studied quite a á
lot for it."
"Some colleagues decided to go out on a Saturday not inviting me á
to decide either the place nor the time."
When my dad passed away.
"My sister was in a hospital, later in the evening we received the á
information that she had died."
"When my son was diagnosed as having CEREBRAL PALSY, at age 5. He á
would have to endure so much labelling, stigma and discrimination, á
even though his case was relatively mild."
Death of a parent.
I was told that a friend of mine was going to Mexico for good.
I felt sad when I was despised by another person.
The loss of my mother.
Lost a friend.
"I couldn't sleep, and began to remind of my childhood. We are many á
sisters and at that time we were spanked a lot and I don't know á
why I started to remind of the spanks they and I had had, their á
shouts when this happened."
"A girlfriend ended our relationship in an abrupt and unexpected á
manner."
"When I found my baby whipped by my Auntie. I was really sad and á
up to this moment my sadness is still on."
"When I failed one of my courses at school - the university of á
Zambia."
"I received a letter from some friends, who do not live in Madrid, á
telling me that they would not come on holiday.  I had arranged á
everythiing for them."
"At my grandfather's funeral.  I remembered that the thing he á
liked and respected most was earth, I thought that he had á
attained what he wanted and was not separated from it any longer."
"A close relative was at odds with a very powerful firm.  All his á
things had been taken, His dad had died a little before this á
event.  He gathhered his children and vowed to give them a good á
life with a new start - the words were hollow, he bit back "
"When a friend of mine died in a hiking accident.  I was not á
present there and only got the news later."
"The holidays come to an end, and the next day we had to go back á
to University and to the exams."
"My mother left my father for his best friend, and he moved to á
Papua New Guinea. Despite the fact that I am closer to my father á
than to anyone else in my family, I had to move in with my á
mother, and say good-bye to my father, not knowing when I would"
"It was when my father was taken into detention by the CIDS for á
two years for a reason I don't know up to now."
"When I failed a test at my primary school.  I was then in grade 7 á
and we were about to take the main exam."
"I lost my grandfather whom I loved very much.  I had not known á
that he had been ill for a very time, when I received this á
message he was already dead."
"Leaving Melbourne to move interstate - leaving relatives and á
friends behind."
When my first love was not successful.
"While walking through an old mining area, I unwittingly disturbed á
a wallaby which, in its resultant flight, accidentally fell down á
a deep mine shaft. On investigation it seemed uninjured, but it á
was impossible for the wallaby to get out, and also fo"
"A friend of mine is having psychiatric problems because of his á
mother's death ages ago. He is really quiet and because it á
relates back to his childhood I feel sadness for him. He doesn't á
lead a normal life and it just seems unfair."
"When I heard that my girlfriend was getting married to another á
person, I felt very sad.  That day I did not eat anything and á
kept thinking of her all day long."
"When my parents and sister went on a trip and I was separated á
from them for about three months."
"When my cousin passed away during the holidays at home.  He fell á
ill at night and the next day he died in the evening."
"When my family heard that my Mother's cousin who lives in á
England wrote us to tell that he had cancer of the lymph glands."
"I was away to school (Primary). In my abscence my young brother á
at home got sick suddenly. My parents took him to hospital. On á
the way he died. It came to me as a sad, sudden and shocking á
news and I felt very sad."
"It was at the time of my M.Sc exam, when I was not in a position á
to take the exam after having studied seriously."
"When I found out that a person I went to school with had died in á
a car accident."
"I don't know why suddenly I thought that what I was feeling for á
my boyfriend was not really love. After almost three years being á
together, this matter of fact shaked me and I felt a great sorrow á
that I can call sadness."
"I dreamt of my father's death while I was at secondary school.  I á
was screaming at the top of my voice and was woken up by my á
friend.  That day I was really sad."
"Leaving home to move closer to University. As an oldest child, á
this experience was traumatic for both my parents and myself."
When I was told that my uncle had passed away.
When my friend (girl) went abroad for two years.
"When my little brother passed away mysteriously, at least from á
what I was told about it."
"When the neighbour of a friend of mine was stabbed to death by á
thieves in Kabwe.  They stole his van."
When my mother died in August 1978.
"At our Senior dinner - separated from school friends, nothing á
will ever be the same again."
When I received a letter telling me that my mother was very ill.
"The sadness came to me when I heard that my girlfriend whom I á
loved so much got married to another man before a rebuff from á
her."
Thinking about friends overseas.
"After training for an Australian championship competition for a á
year and then injuring myself 2 weeks before the competiotion."
When I was told that my father had passed away.
"When my cousin passed away unexpectedly and tragically (a á
murder)."
"When my father passed away of cancer, I was extremely saddened. á
He was not very old, which made matters worse. The actual death á
was horrendous, but the moving funeral saddened me more so."
"When I was about to write my Junior Certificate Exams, I received á
sad news telling me that my elder sister had passed away."
"Looking up end-of-semester results, and finding I'd failed three á
out of seven (subjects)."
"I felt sad when I heard that my girlfriend was double-crossing me á
with the boy who is my best friend."
The day my teacher of Latin and French died.
When I got divorced from my husband after ten years of marriage.
When my grandfather died.
When my father died.
"At end of school - function to ""celebrate"" ? Leaving friends who á
I'd known for up to 12 years."
"I really became sad when mother passed away while I was very á
young."
When I learnt of the death of a friend.
My father died last year after an 8-week severe illness.
"1976, Soweto uprising in South Africa and the racist Gout's á
reaction to the students demands concerning the educational á
system."
When my girlfriend's nephew passed away.
"I had been caught red-handed having stolen some paw-paw. I was á
then taken the elders owning the paw-paws."
Passing away of my father.
"Shifted from Melbourne to Brisbane. All my old school friends á
gave me a party and I had to say good-bye to them all."
When I lost my father in a car accident.
"I experienced this emotion when my friend committed suicide after á
we had spent the afternoon playing and discussing life and it's á
problems."
"When I left all my friends at school (break up) knowing we would á
probably all go our separate ways, and none see one another for a á
long time."
"I felt sad when I was told to walk out of the classroom because I á
was within the row of students who were making noise."
"When I was not selected to go to the University of Malawi I felt á
very sad."
"I was terribly upset when my kitten got hit by a car. He didn't á
die, but for several weeks we thought he might have to be put á
down."
"When I received a message that my brother was seriously ill and á
was in hospital."
"I broke up with my boyfriend of seven months, but it was a very á
""indepth"" relationship and so after feelings of grief and loss á
were over I felt an immense sadness."
"When I lost my father on the 25th of September,1970.  He died of á
a sore on the leg."
"I remember that when my mother died the day was sad and every á
time I think of it I am saddened by the loss of my mother."
"A friend of mine could not make it back to Unza after having á
failed the exams."
"When I went to see the result of an exam and saw that I had á
failed."
"At the funeral of a friend about 20 years old, who was killed in á
a hit-and-run motorcycle accident."
"I felt it when I was at home and saw a discussion without sense á
between my parents."
"I had a girlfriend who lived several kilometers away from my á
home. One day she wrote me that she'd visit me. On her way she á
had a car accident and was badly injured. I was very sorry to see á
her lying in a bed in the hospital."
"This morning during my sleep I had a feeling that someboby was á
attacking me.  I started crying in my sleep and then my room-mate á
woke me up."
"I was very sad when I was shouted at by Uncle and was told that I á
was not to be given school fees because I didn't go to work in á
the garden since I had gone to escort my sister to the bus depot."
The death of my grandfather.
Death of grandmother.
When one of my closest friends died unexpectantly.
"When one of my best friends commited siucide during these á
holidays."
"It was last September when I felt very sad. It was when I heard á
that I was not selected to study in the University of Malawi."
"I felt sad when my dear friend was needed from training school á
due to his failure in a number of subjects and simply didn't know á
what he had to do."
When my team lost a championship.
"At rejection / being ignored by a loved person held in great á
esteem."
I got separated from the man I loved.
"When a person whom I loved and admired a lot died.  I felt empty, á
lonely, helpless, without support, not knowing what to do."
When my grandmother passed away.
"It was when I failed standard 8 exams while all my friends á
passed and went to secondary school. In class I was always á
getting more marks than they did."
"This happened when one of my uncles died just whan I was á
planning to go and visit him during the next holidays."
"When a friend, who has been with me at school, failed to make it á
to UNZA."
Close relative is dying of cancer - found out last week.
To say goodbye to dear friends after the holidays.
"I was so sad when I heard that my Uncle had passed away. He was á
the only man who was supporting my parents as well as myself."
"Leaving the house myself and a female friend had shared for 6-8 á
months because of the friendship which developed and our approach á
to each other in occasional instances of several personal crises."
When my grandfather died.
When felt lonely about writing my family.
"I was very sad when I heard about the death of my teacher who á
taught me in Standard 8."
Death of the family dog.
The first time I left home.
"A friend of mine told me that my boyfriend had been with another á
girl this Summer.  We had been going out together for four years á
and we had not done so for the last three months.  I could not á
believe it."
"Moving to an unknown place, away from the familiar surroundings á
and into a situation of loneliness."
To fight with a sister and to know that she doesn't care.
"When my sister died, she was only sixteen when she was put to á
rest."
When I came back from my holidays.
After the fact that made me ashamed I felt sadness.
"The loss of my father as he died of a massive and sudden heart á
attack."
"It was in the evening when I heard that my girl went to Zambia á
and that she would never come back."
"When my friends died one after the other.  The first died in a á
car accident and the second one recently, due to an illness."
I felt very sad when my son died after a short illness.
"One day, I was home and there was a phone call informing me that á
some of my relatives had died in an accident."
"I was once nominated as an Officer Cadet in the Armed Forces and á
my name was cancelled on the list of nominees of those who were á
sent to Kenya for Training."
"When my close friend was involved in an accident and passed away á
instantly.  He had gone to buy a new car and had asked me to á
wait at his home so that I could see his new car."
My uncle died - I felt sad at the funeral.
"One day I came across a certain boy who was intruding my á
friendship as lovers with my girlfriend and I was very sad á
because I didn't expect that girl to disappoint me I regarded her á
as being very faithful."
"That afternoon I received two messages informing me, one that my á
brother was in a coma in the U.T.H suffering (kidney disease) and á
two, that my uncle met with an accident on his way to the hospital á
 to see my brother."
"I never failed my examinations since Standard 1 but I experienced á
sad moments when I sat for Standard 8 Examination and I was not á
selected for Secondary School education in 1978."
"When I deeply felt that I could lose the person I love best á
because of my foolishness."
"When I lost my grandmother.  She had been my guardian after the á
death of my father."
When I heard of the death of my mother.
When I try to get closer at a person and she misinterpreted me.
"I remember the day my father died. I was 11 years old and my á
sadness was so great that until today I remember everything á
about that day, from the clothes I was wearing to the reactions of people, á
the despair of my mother and brother. It marked me a "
A relative, whom I like very much, left for the United States.
"I felt very sad when I was in Form three to notice that my friend á
Barley Jumbe, had lost very expensive new sports short trousers."
When my uncle died.
"The second time I went to the entrance exam to V.S.P. and á
didn't get approved."
When my best friend died, at the age of 16.
"I was sad when my MCE grades were out. I had gone for a football á
match a mile away from home. The mail found me there. I was á
disappointed and didn't play the other half of the match."
"My dog, whom I had had for eleven years, died. I watched his á
soporification."
When my father died.
"It was on 9th January 1983 when I received a message from home á
telling me that my father passed away on the previous day with a á
history of cancer of the oesophagus. This time I was doing my á
third year of my Secondary School."
When I am with a friend and we have to leave each other.
"When my boyfriend did not turn up in time as he promised he would á
be coming."
"A friend of mine lent me his apartment for holidays and besides á
this he was a fine person. Months later I knew that he died á
tragically in a moto accident. He was very young, and I felt sad á
and couldn't believe it (until today)."
A friend died of cancer when he was 18 years old.
"My brother came to tell me about some problems we had in the  á
family.  I felt sad because I thought that if my mother had not á
gone away when this brother was younger, things would have been á
different."
"My fiancT's family was adopting a 5 years old boy. I felt á
myself close to him as I never felt before. After some time his á
mother demanded the care of the kid and we were obliged to send á
him back."
"When I realized that I did not have the basic things needed by a á
student like me."
"A certain person whom I respect and esteem a lot pays me no á
attention.  She keeps up appearances but shows almost no interest á
in me."
I was going away, leaving a dear person behind.
"Death of my grnadfather after having been in hospital for so long á
with cancer of the Oesophagus."
"During my holiday I met again a friend who had tried to commit á
suicide. She had just left hospital, her lips were trembling, she á
looked miserable."
"When I was betrayed by a friend, and decided to stay apart form á
her."
"Last academic year I received bad news - my grand-uncle had á
passed away.  I felt lonely and bad because apart from the         á
biological ties, he was a good old friend of mine at home."
"I was all of the sudden sad when I heard that my cousin who á
usually paid school fees had passed away after a very short á
illness."
I had failed some subjects in mathematics.
"When I knew that a person that I liked very much didn't react the á
way I would like to, even that I knew about his feelings for me."
Often a dog which is treated very badly by his owner comes to us.
"Last year, when I took the college entrance examinations I á
failed the FUVEST. It was for me the most frustrating situation á
because I had studied all year long, and only thought about this."
"When a close friend, residing in the hostel, lost his father I á
really pittied him and the situation made me feel sad."
A dear friend was removed from the division whre I work.
"When my grandmother passed away.  We had been waiting for it as á
she had been sick for years, but when it happened I found it hard á
to accept."
When my father died.
"When I knew about my sister's in law finacial situation and what á
she was facing."
When my beloved grandfather died.
"When my wife died in hospital, she was pregnant and had undergone á
an operation."
"When on Christmas day my grandmother died. I received the á
news when I was coming back from a party on the 24th at 5 am."
"I experienced this when my maternal grandmother passed away.  She á
was the last of my grand parents to pass away."
"I felt very sad when I saw the first list from the names of the á
people who entered at the University and my name wasn't there."
"When the train taking me to my military service left the station, á
on the platform remained relatives, projects and goodtimes.  I á
had a hard year ahead."
"After hearing the news about the death of my sister, I felt very á
sad."
The passing away of my mum.
"When I received my S.Y.J.C results which did not allow me to get   á
admission in engineering."
"When I didn't succeed to enter at the University, I felt that the á
college entrance course sistem prejudiced me, that my integrity, á
and effort weren't corresponded."
"My father's death in January 1983 moved me deeply.  The gloom á
prevailed for almost two years and I am still to recover from it."
"My Uncle was beaten by his troublesome son. He fell unconscious á
and gained consciousness after some time. That time I was at á
school; this news reached me through someone."
A close friend died.
When my brother died.
"When a girl did not answer a question, concerning my love for á
her, put forward to her."
"When I was 10/11 years old my father travelled very much for his á
work (he passed three months away from home)."
"It was the time I went home for my holidays only to find that my á
sister had passed away.  The news had been hidden from me, so á
that I could take my exams."
"We went to visit my mother at the residence.  She was crying and á
said that she was about to die.  I believed all her complaints á
and continously thought of the possibility of loosing her."
I was watching a sad film and it affected me deeply.
When the girl I loved turned me down.
When my elder brother died.
My dog died of a cerebral tumor.
[ No response.]
"I saw a dead child which was not covered, it had been knocked á
down by a car."
"A close friend travelled to another country. When I knew that he á
would only come back after many years, I felt very sad."
A friend who was 22 years old died.
"I had received bad news informing me that grandmother and á
grandfather had passed away. The first one to die was my á
grandmother and after two days grandfather died too."
"When I realized that it was impossible for me to be as free as I á
had imagined and that I could not do anythong about it."
"In the 12/83 my boyfriend asked me to forget him, as it would be á
easy."
"A friend of mine was hurt as he thought that our relationship was á
not the same as before and something had gone wrong."
"Finding out that the university will give first priority to á
qualified practioners and clinical years to go to your English á
lectures."
"I felt very sad when a friend of mine failed the final exam and á
she could not be accepted at the institution of learning."
"When my family and I heard of the death of my grandfather.  We had á
 seen him a few weeks earlier and it seemed that he had just been á
waiting to see us."
When I couldn't go for a trip with my friends in a holiday.
"When I became conscious that men don't wnat anything they don't á
have a goal. They have: sex, but this isn't important."
A friend breaking up with her boyfriend.
"When I saw in the newspapers, on the T.V, and magazines the á
chaotic situation caused by the drought and hunger in á
Mauritania."
"It was only once that I really felt sad: at my grandfather's á
funeral (after a long time of suffering he had died of cancer)."
When my grandmother, my second mother died.
"When I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked á
quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time."
At my grandfather's death.
"It happened when I lost two very intimate friends in a car á
accident."
"The death of my guardian with whom I had stayed when I did my á
grade six."
When my aunt passed away in early 1982.
Failed an examn.
I am sad because some relations to friends are not very good.
When I heard about the death of my aunt.
My friend was badly hurt.
"It was mid May 1985, When we had a Test on Nursing. My classmate á
had an answer sheet, so he tried to peep. The Nursing Tutor á
caught him. During this time I was turning my question paper and á
it made noise. This friend blamed me of causing the whole m"
When a friend left me and went back home for good.
"When I knew almost the same day about two great friends of mine á
that had serious existential crisis, and mainly when I notice á
that I'm in the same situation that they are, but I didn't á
realize it."
"I felt very sad when I lost my three Kwacha at civo Stadium when á
Sam Mangwana was playing some Rumba records. That was not what I á
expected, I wanted some Disco records."
"One Saturday morning I had got ready to go out swimming with my á
friends.  Unfortunately the weather did not permit it, so we á
stayed indoors."
"During an informal talk with a friend when we talk about the life á
of another person, a common friend, that is in a situation of not á
being able to assume certain problems that he decided to solve, á
that is, she herself suggested the problems and decid"
Loss of close relative.
To buy a car and didn't like the business and the car.
I was not chosen for the All English class.
A friend's mother died.
[ I have not felt this emotion in my life.]
"I insulted a couple of good friends of mine and even tried to hit á
them when I was drunk.  The next day, I was ashamed of course."
"My friend was so intoxicated that the police came and took him á
away, and they later contacted his parents."
I forgot to zip up my trousers, this was not noticed by anyone.
When my sister became pregnant at UNZA last year.
"When I could not remember what to say about a presentation task á
at an accounts meeting."
"When I was in a bus on my way to the examination centre, a man    á
sitting opposite me kept looking at me continously.  I did not know  á
what was wrong.  When I reached the  centre I started strolling around  á
as I still had a little time.  Suddenly a "
"I was caught stealing food at my aunt's place.  I had tried to á
hide the food I had taken from the pantry while my aunt was in á
the kitchen, however she went to the pantry and discovered the á
stolen package."
When coming up for trial because of shop lifting.
"I felt ashamed of myself the first time I drank as nobody in the á
family drinks.  I felt that I had let down my parents and my á
friends."
"When my friend and I were discussing the good looks of a guy we á
realized that he had been listening."
After having failed my driving test.
Insulted my girlfriend during a peptalk.
"My mother told my uncle who is a Roman Catholic Priest á
(Redemptist Father) that I had been living in a de-facto á
relationship for three years. He was very, very angry at me."
My article not chosen by the college newspaper
When I gave my boyfriend a brush-off.
"Making an unexpected talk with a professor in the canteen. This á
made me shy."
"Last Summer I went camping with some C.U students.  As I was á
working then, I had to leave the second night (some of them had á
joined us the first night).  Next morning, 6 o'clock, a female á
classmate knocked on our door and tried to wake us up.  I was"
[ Do not know.]
Being unable to stop urinating on the bus.
Failing an examn.
"Getting drunk and creating a lot of trouble at a place I respect á
- my friend's home."
"I fell on the ground while crossing the street.  My cap covered á
my eyes and I felt quite ""difficult""."
"When I contacted a sexually transmitted disease and the á
lecturer came to know about it as it was he who treated me for á
it."
"When I arrived too late at a meeting of mentor (the night before á
the introduction of novices on the University start)."
"A friend catched me while masturbating. I am not fully sure á
whether she saw it or not."
"During a party I overheard a conversation about china. When I á
wanted to give my opinion one of the people came out to be Chinese á
and his opinion was right of course."
"I had obviously done the work badly but my class-mates of the á
student's association did not blame me, they helped me do the á
work."
"When I was 10 years old I stained our bench with a fountain-pen, á
I tried to twin the cushions, but then there were colour nuances. á
Then my mother catched me, she saw it and became very angry."
"During the lesson the teacher called me and asked me if I had á
reported that I was late.  I pretended that I had but looking at á
her eyes I knew that she knew that I was lying.  I thought that á
it was really bad luck that she had examined the list of t"
"When I was found urinating, behind a toilet instead of inside it, á
by my class mates and the teachers.  I was told to pick up my own á
urine from the wet soil, I did it."
[ No response.]
Failing in the English language exam.
"When I did something naughty and it lead to the embarrassment of á
my parents."
Nearly caught masturbating.
"When a soppy poem that I had written to a boy was found and every á
one read it and started teasing me about it."
Being sexually assulted in public.
At school - being whipped by the teacher in front of the class.
"One morning after breakfast I was still not satisfied.  My nephew á
(a small boy of 2) had not eaten his breakfast and just when I á
was taking a bit of his share someone walked in."
"[ I do not remember when I last felf ashamed.  I do not usually á
feel ashamed of what I do.]"
"I talk too much, cannot keep things secret. I promised a friend á
not to tell something to anybody. Neverthless, I did, and she got á
informed about it. I felt very ashamed."
"When I forgot the birthday of my best friend and I innocently á
came to visit her one week later."
"At Christmas night there was a good movie on television which I á
wanted to see for years. I was whining about it till someone told á
me it was very childish. Then I felt shame."
"I saw a bag on the street and just then a stranger passed by.  I á
picked up the bag immediately and gave it to the stranger as I á
thought that it belonged to him.  But it was not his bag and I á
felt ashamed."
"When an intimate friend of mine passed B.A with first class and I á
got only pass class."
[ Same as above - friends who torture animals.]
"I insulted the girl to whom I had proposed when she turned me á
down."
"I did not do the homework that the teacher had asked us to do.  I á
was scolded immediately."
"When I had to walk home from the bus-stop in a skirt that I had á
soiled.  It drew a lot of attention and they all seemed to want á
to see the blood stains."
"When I bribed the person who caught me doing something I was not á
supposed to have done.  I was very ashamed of what I had done."
"I was very drunk at a certain wedding party and I got involved in á
a fight."
"I was catched when, as a little girl, I played tricks. I was very á
startled then and wet my pants."
"I wrote a letter to my father to ventilate my bottled up á
feelings. Afterwards I thought it was too negative."
"My brother came to see me and found me with a boy friend.  When á
my boyfriend greeted him, he did not answer and instead started á
shouting at me and scolding me in the prescence of my boyfriend."
"Recently, I left my bag in the car of someone who picked me up á
while hitch-hiking. I spent some effort to find out where he á
lived (I succeeded)."
"When I saw my 18 year old son grab an oxygen mask as he had á
breathing difficulties.  I had a bad conscience because I had not á
stopped smoking.  Medication for the dilation of his breathing á
tubes also caused a sense of guilt in me."
[ No response.]
"My father was very angry with another man in the presence of my á
friends."
[ Can not think of anything.]
[ No response.]
"When I was leaving home I decided to leave without saying á
good-bye to my young brother.  My brother saw me and said,        á
"" Will you not say good-bye to me?""  He is only 31/2 years old. "
I was very angry at someone.
"When I received a letter from my girlfriend telling me that she á
was engaged to an another man."
"One rainy day when the streets were wet, and as I was walking down á
a slope, I fell down out of my carelessness.  There were many á
people and they saw me, so I felt ashamesd.  Moreover I hurt my á
ankle and it was painful."
"While dining with some accquaintances I was asked something á
which I should have known but I did not know."
"I am troubled by hair growing in my neck. I was troubled by this á
for a long time and was much ashamed when someone brought his/her á
hands close to my face."
When I did not speak the truth.
"In the compartment of a public transport railway, I did not give á
my seat to an old man who was standing near me.  It was another á
teenager who did so."
When I was caught with someone's daughter.
Not being able to hand in homework in time.
"When I was taking an exam in grade 5.  The examinator found me á
with a note-book and accused me of copying, All the students á
laughed at me."
"My friend had many female friends and I thought that they were á
his lovers.  I would scold him but he did not accept my advice.  á
Later I learnt from his girlfriends that this was not true.  I á
felt ashamed at having misunderstood him."
When I failed the grade seven exams.
When, as an adult I have been caught lying or behaving badly.
"A much older man took advantage of me during my childhood (four á
to eight years of age)."
Ctiticized by teachers in public.
"My mother caught me stealing some food when I was a young á
boy."
"Quite recently I realized that I had had some erroneous views á
about life. For instance, I had always lived for other people, á
had forgotten my own person and suppressed my own feelings. I was á
ashamed because I had not been concious of that until I ha"
Meeting other friends who got in the good universities.
"When I was in the canteen of the United college I mistook a á
stranger for a classmate as I was not wearing my glasses.  I á
realized that I had made this mistake when I saw him again á
carefully."
"On New Years eve I drank too much alcohol, so much that I had to á
vomit in the presence of other people."
"When I was hungry, I tried to take the money that my mother á
had saved up for something else."
[ Do not remember any situation of that kind.]
When someone I know was caught in an "adultery" situation.
"I stayed at home for a period because I felt depressive and I á
neglected my study when people adked me, I told them that I had á
freeterm and studied hard. I felt ashamed for my behavior and á
lies."
First time going out with a boy and other people laughed at us.
Not doing well in the examn.
When I failed the grade seven exams.
"I tried to swindle a jeweller because my watch was broken and I á
wanted to have it repaired it was a pity but they detected it."
"My elder brother and I have not always had a good relationship á
and I feel ashamed of myself as I do not call him to talk to him á
nowadays."
"I had lied to a person because I had thought that I could not á
tell him the truth. When he found out he was not angry but á
understanding. We talked the whole thing over."
When I got a bad result for one of my assignments.
During my childhood I once lied and my sister found out.
"Asking someone to give me back the money I once lend him because á
I needed it myself."
"Once a female classmate told me that the clothes I wore seemed to á
be a child's clothes.  On hearing this I felt a little ashamed and á
I criticized her clothes though there was nothing wrong with á
them."
"I was working in a job in which I could not work quickly enough, á
and was told that my work was not up to standard."
"While watching a religious film, I got very excited and made a á
number of comments which were reproached to me by an elderly á
person who respected me."
"When a lady I was flirting with told all my class-mates that she á
was in second year while I was in first year, everyone laughed á
and started looking at me."
"In an examination ,which other students found easy I could hardly á
think and did not know what to answer."
"I had gone to aa bookshop to buy some books.  Somehow, I got very á
cross with the security guard checking through what I had bought. á
 I lost my temper and screamed at him.  Later I felt very ashamed á
at myself as a lot of people I know were there."
"After a jogging session I had severe abdominal cramps and this á
lead to my wanting to empty my bladder.  My friends gathered á
around me and two of them had to help me to the toilet.  I was á
ashamed at having to go to the toilet in the presence of my á
"
"I was running in front of a crowd when I slipped and fell on a á
wet lawn."
"I forgot that the course instructor had directed us to go for á
special classes after the usual class hours.  I missed this the á
first day and when he asked me about it the next day I said that á
I had forgotten."
"As a young girl in form I, I wet my bed one day at the boarding á
school and many girls came to see the person who had done it as I á
had to take my mattress out that day."
Lying to my cousin about the form five examination fees.
"When I could not hold my bladder while making a telephone call á
and ended up wetting myself."
"When I stole a book in class and the teacher caught me, the rest á
of the class laughed at my attempt."
I lied, to be precise I cancelled a meeting with a good friend.
Not chosen for all English classes.
"It was during a school holiday - I was found necking a girl in my á
room by my father."
"I was jerking me off in my bedroom, when suddenly, my mother came á
in. She looked at me and immediately left the room."
"I was ashamed at being the only one to have got a C+ in ED120 á
assignment."
"When I was tired and unmotivated, I shouted at my girlfriend and á
and brought up negative sides of her character which are actually á
not so important."
[ No response.]
I did badly in the mid term examination.
[ No response.]
"At using other people, because of sexual experience that was á
using another to the detriment of both. Anxiety that I may have á
affected another for the worst."
"I omitted to do a favor to a friend, while he was very much in á
need for help."
"My girlfriend had started going around with another boy.  Her á
cousin, also a friend of mine, asked her as to who she preferred. á
 Both of us were present and she chose the other guy."
"I was wearing slippery shoes and I tumbled down in a place where á
there were many people walking by."
When I wet my bed at boarding school.
"When the teacher asked me a question, I did not know the answer á
and I just stood still for about a few minutes without saying a á
word."
When I tried to steal a book from the bookshop and was caught.
"When my mother found a leaf of my diary where I had written about á
my mother's lack of education, especially her poor arithmetical á
insight."
"Making bloopers: e.g. telling something negative about a certain á
person, while that person is standing besides you and hears á
everything."
"[ I feel shame when I do not arrive on time and others have to á
wait for me for a long time.]"
The day after the night I drank too much at a party.
"I was double crossing my fiancee and one day she caught me red á
handed.  She forgave me later.  I was very ashamed of what I had á
done."
I scolded my sister without waiting for her explanation.
Going out for dinner, or during one ice-cream and four spoons.
Criticized by a teacher in public.
"When I am angry at someone without a good reason. Later on it á
proves that he didn't do anything wrong."
"When I got drunk at a party and made a fool of myself by á
vomitting all over the place and insulting the people who were á
there with me."
When I failed to answer a simple question.
"A girl asked me why I didn't dance. I told her I was ashamed to á
dance. I felt myself ashamed having to tell her this."
"When I failed my grade 7 exam at the first attempt in 1975.  My á
father and the entire family thought that I was finished in life. á
 I really felt like hiding."
"I thought of myself as being clumsy when I made love for the á
first time with a girl."
"When five of my friends at the secondary school found out the bad á
things that I had been saying about them."
When I imitated a teacher behind his back - walking very silly.
"This was when I was discovered stealing a piece of bread at home, á
I was very hungry a few hours before supper."
"When I asked my classmate to teach me to do my homework, he asked á
me to study by myself first but I did not do it.  When he asked me á
 if I had studied, I felt very ashamed. "
My companion admired me when I did some work voluntarily.
"A patient, to whom I had given a powerful medicine, shouted at me á
in front of many people.  I realized that he did so because he á
was very ill."
When I got very low marks in one of the assignments.
I choked on a cold drink in front of girls who were strangers.
"I told a friend that I was going to a party and he would not á
enjoy himself if he came along.  He understood  that he would not á
have fitted in and there was something in that."
"I lied to someone and some time later this person found out that á
I had not told him the truth."
"When I realized that I was directing the feelings of discontent á
with myself at my partner and this way was trying to put the blame á
on him instead of sorting out my own feeliings."
"When I walked out of my room with only my pants on and found my á
girlfriend and her female friend looking for me outside."
When one has been unjust, stupid towards someone else. 
[ No response.]
Failing an examn.
"When my cousin's wife refused him sex and claimed that she was my á
girllfriend.  I think that there is something wrong with the á
woman as I have never even thought of having sex with her."
"When I went to a disco with a friend I started behaving badly á
embarrassing him without reason."
"I made a joke about the rat of a boy. I compared his rat with a á
sausage. I told the boy he had a delicious sausage."
"When I embarrassed a friend by asking him aloud if a certain á
person was ""the source of gossip"" he told me about, while that á
person was also present."
"After having quarelled unnecessarily and without any reason, and á
having been stupidly cross in every way."
"At a concert an old man arrived and began to danse, sing and do á
silly things."
When I was caught stealing money from my father.
"The parents of a friend of mine surprised us and another couple á
sleeping in thier place."
"When I was in grade one, one day I felt like going to the toilet á
during class but I was very scared of the teacher so I urinated á
in the class."
During a meeting.
When I tripped while getting on a bus.
[ Do not know.]
When inadvertantly I found myself in the ladies room.
When my mother caught me masturbating.
"When a woman who I respected very much was made pregnant, á
unexpectedly by a man of a caliber I never expected."
"I was watching T.V with my parents and some pornographic scenes á
came on, I felt uncomfortable and tried to distract my parents á
attention by talking to them."
"When I went to see the doctor and had to take my clothes off so á
that he could examine me."
"I had a feeling of shame when I found myself unable to answer á
some questions from my tutor simply because of a lack of á
preparation."
"I had a misunderstanding with my father and after some time I á
found that I had been wrong."
When I had to represent my boss at a meeting.
When I was in the toilet and someone came in.
"I had something wrong, saying wrong things and being impolite to á
someone, and this had embarrassed the this person.  And I á
still meet the person."
When I failed one of the first year's courses.
Each time the professor asks me a question in class.
I took an exam which I failed terribly as I had not studied.
"At primary school, when I vomited in front of others in the middle  á
of a lesson."
"On Christmas eve I went to a classmate's home with other á
classmates.  The next morning when I came out of the toilet she á
said something and I did not understand what she was saying.  á
When she pointed at my trousers I discovered that I had forgotten "
"The day I learnt that my girlfriend had been going around with  a á
close friend of mine."
"When I complained to my mother about how untidy the kitchen á
loooked, she boxed my ears ( this had never happened before)."
"When I was a child I had to recite a poem in a show at the end of á
the term."
I could not finish my homework on time.
"When I made the same mistake that I had accused someone else of, and á
this was obvious to a third pereson."
[ No response.]
"I was with a group of people and everybody told me to do or say á
something.  It was a confusing, strong and traumatic situation á
for me."
"I was ashamed when my friend and I were cross with each other á
till we apologized to each other."
"When I inadvertantly entered the ladies room and met some girls á
on my way out."
"My teacher said that being university studets we did not have á
any self-initiative or self-control."
"Equivocal situation when filling a security questionnaire on á
entering a government building with several people there."
"My third grade teacher caught me cheating on a spelling test. I á
couldn't spell Australia and she said in a loud voice something á
like ""We don't have cheaters in my class""."
When I was dismissed from a job after having been accused of theft.
"I liked a boy and I would feel shy and then blush.  The more I á
wanted to avoid it the more I blushed."
"When I as a child of 9 or 10 I was playing doctor with the á
neighbours boys their mother caught us."
Getting very low marks in mathematics.
"The last time I had to phone the Registry, after having called á
them so many times in the last few days."
"In a very crowded shop I was distracted and missed my turn in the á
queue.  A woman who was behind me began to shout at me asking me á
either to pay more attention or to leave."
"I do not have accomodation on the campus so I stay with my á
extended family, one young man used bad words while asking me to á
leave their home."
"When I just took a shower with a girl down the hall. I felt that á
I had let my devotion to God go out the window. Although nothig á
happened I felt ashamed."
"I misunderstood a girl and thought that she loved me.  One day á
when I was talking to her, her boyfriend appeared and I felt á
ashamed."
Spots on the seat covers of my husband's car.
"I was at the University dining room, alone, and at a table next á
to mine thre were several professors.  One of them asked me to á
join them.  I refused but she insisted.  All the others started á
looking at me and I had to move to their table."
"On New Year's Eve, when I went to the house of my girlfriend's á
parents to meet them."
"Once I arrived two hours late to my work place (a bank) and I was á
still feeling feeble and tired."
"I was swimming in the sea and a wave took the top part of my á
bikini away."
"On a road trip with a group of sorority and fraternity people, I á
became intoxicated and basically raped. I don't remember the á
actual event, but I know the feeling that I experienced later."
"My little brother was arrested by the police at the railway station after á
he had drunk some beer."
"When I was doing my homework at home, some relatives came and á
advised me to help my mother do the house-work."
When I swindled money out of someone.
"For example, to feel bad because of one's attire, to be among á
people who do not belong to the same social class, to give a á
wrong answer in class, to be surprised in particular situations."
"I think that I am rather shy and do not mix with people as I á
would have liked to, out of shyness."
"When I asked a friend to return the money that I had loaned her á
and then remembered that she had repayed me in several ways."
[ Cannot recall any incident when I felt shame.]
"I was in a very small class and the professor said something á
about me that made everyone look at me at the same time."
"I was worried by a task related to my studies which had to be á
done in groups of two.  I was talking about it to my friends when á
I said something negative, in too abrupt a manner, concerning my á
work partner.  I did not quite mean what I said and I fe"
"Every time I was around this one person I would stick my foot in á
my mouth by being nasty. One time I accidently said something á
fairly cruel that was totally inappropriate."
"My aunt phoned me to ask me why I had refused the her invitation á
to dinner at her home on the New Year's Eve."
"I promised a friend that I would return a book to it's owner for á
him , but I forgot to do it."
When I forgot about a meeting at work.
I felt shame when I found that I was almost last in the exam.
"When I stated sharply something I was not very sure of and a few á
days later I was shown to be wrong."
"During an informal discussion I contributed a lot even though I á
had not spent much time studying.  Whenever someone said that á
someone was not paying attention, or that he had too many other á
things to do, or that the persoon was not trying his best, "
"In class I had to say something aloud and people reacted  by á
laughing."
[ No response.]
When I boxed my child's ears.
When I failed grade 7.
When I fell head on in a fountain.
"I was alone in the bus when I tripped and fell, and dropped all á
my papers."
"When a professor caught me absent-minded and not paying attention á
to what he was saying."
"One day I felt dizzy during a lecture.  When the lecturer asked á
us as to who had heard the fairy tale - I was the only one who á
put up his hand and this surprised the whole class."
Once when I said bad things concerning a friend.
I was wearing a slit tight dress at a disco and it burst open.
Emptied a bucket of water in a hospital.
[ No response.]
"One day in class, the professor asked me a question concerning something á
he had been explaining.  He was very close to me (beside me) and I á
had no idea what to answer."
"When I went to the library three weeks after it had opened and á
found that everyone was busy."
[ No response.]
"About a dozen girls laughed at me and I was sure that there was á
nothing wrong with me."
Once I had to visit a rather special person.
"While shopping, a person close to us created an uncomfortable á
situation for those who were with her."
"In a Mathematics class, the professor asked me a question and I á
gave the wrong answer."
"When I was emotionally unstable I said things which may have hurt á
others or made them feel unhappy.  When I calmed down I realized á
that I had been selfish and had not taken into consideration the á
feelings of others.  Then I felt ashamed as someone p"
"One day, when I was sitting on the bus, there was an old woman á
standing beside me.  I was very tired and sleepy and did not á
think of giving her my seat.  A 50 year old woman who was sitting á
beside me got up and gave her seat to the old woman and sai"
When my mum learnt that I had beaten up someone in a fight.
"When I was taken to the place where my uncle had defecated in his á
pants after having drunk beer."
"When I was young I felt ashamed when our relatives visited us and á
I hid myself."
"The girl with whom I was going around had been forbidden to be á
alone with me in the house.  We paid no attention to this á
prohibition but one day her parents appeared and I jumped out of á
the window.  They saw me."
"A children's film in which I played a clown, with spotlights, á
cameras and the director who demanded jumps and guffaws."
"When I realized that I was pregnant.  I thought about what my á
relatives and friends would think about me and I felt a lot of á
self pity."
"I insulted two of my friends because I thought that had been á
gossiping about me right under my nose, however I later found out á
that they were not doing so."
"I can not think of any incident when I have felt very ashamed.  á
There are small incidents that I am ashamed of, for instance, á
not sending money to the children in Ethiopia."
I drink wine too often.
"When I dated a close girlfriend's boyfriend a few times. He told á
me that it was over between them and I accepted it.  When she á
found out she finished our friendship."
"I slipped and fell in to a puddle and people started looking at á
me."
"I had to meet a girlfriend to go out for a drink and she arrived á
with her aunt, to whom I was introduced.  Then the aunt left."
When I forgot my mother's birthday.
"Once my presentation was the worst among my classmates as I had á
not prepared it well and had not seen it as important.  My á
presentation was so confused that it clearly showed my poor á
preparation."
"When I told a lie to a friend of my sister on April fool's day.  á
She later came to see me and told me that it was a very foolish á
thing to do."
"In a Christian gathering's lucky draw I mistook a girl's name for á
mine (a boy's name).  I realized my mistake only when I went up á
to the stage for the prize.  I did not know what to do as á
everyone was looking at me.  I blushed and went back to my se"
"A person (a male) told me that he liked me.  He has a problem, he á
is a homosexual."
"When criticizing something about a person and then realizing that á
the person whom one is talking to is similar."
"We were discussing a subject ( I knew very little about it) and I á
was holding my ground.  They showed me that I was wrong."
"One day I got on the bus without any money or season ticket and á
the driver threw me out."
At a friend's party there were several allusions to my sexual adventures.
"When I lied to my wife and told her that I was going to the á
Copperbelt on a buisness trip, she later found me in a hotel with á
a girlfriend."
"When I overtook a car on the mainroad, misjudging the distance of á
an oncoming car and this resulted in tooting and flashing from á
the other driver (we could have collided), and I had an á
acquaintance in the car with me."
"When we were at home, my husband and I, he made a remark about á
something I had done, in a perfectly friendly manner.  My deed á
had been unjust and I knew that my husband was right, therefore my á
sense of shame."
"A few years back I had proposed love to a girl who later turned out á
to be related to me.  Though we were in love with each other, we á
both felt ashamed and withdrew from each other."
"I complained about a colleague's behaviour as she goes back on á
her word, is often absent and is irresponsible.  I found out that á
she was an alcoholic and was trying to fight againt her á
addiction."
"When a friend from whom I preferred to hide my private life á
discovered that I had relations with a man."
When my younger sister, who was then 16 years old, was pregnant.
When I did not buy what I had promised to.
"My mother had just been teaching me how to crochet, which is á
thought highly improper for a boy in a town.  Just when we á
finished, a neighbour walked in."
"The first time that I caressed a girl, I was about thirteen and á
she was eighteen.  I noticed that it did not affect her at all."
"This morning I spent a lot of time on my toilet and missed the á
train to the university.  My mother told me that I spent more á
time than a woman on my toilet.  I felt a mixed emotion of shame á
and anger."
"My mother revealed personal details about me and the á
negative aspects of my character to other people when I was á
present but unable to defend myself."
"Once in primary five, I had forgotten to take a book to class and á
the teacher punished me by asking me to stand at the back of the á
class.  I thought about the way my mother would react if she saw á
me being punished.  My mother was very good to me and"
When I failed the grade 7.
"When I was in a religious school my teacher showed me up in front á
of all my class-mates.  They were very sarcastic and cruel."
"I took a girl out once and discovered that she was going around á
with one of my close friends."
When people next to me play the fool.
"When I told a girl that I could not take her out that night as I á
was entertaining my mother who had come from home.  However, I á
later met this girl with another girlfriend at a hostel where I á
had taken out another girlfriend of mine."
"It was discovered that I had received a warning letter as my á
G.P.A was very low."
"A professor was going to read aloud in class a composition of á
mine in which I had criticized some political attitudes and also á
some class-mates.   I was ashamed at having written that."
[ No response.]
When I went for the first time in my life to a nudist-beach.
"When I was 13 years old I wrote passionate love letters to my á
boyfriend and I later found out that his sister had read them."
I forgot something I agreed upon with a good friend.
"As a kid my mother caught me stealing sugar and giving it to a á
neighbour."
Acting in a play at the orientation camp made me feel timid.
"When I was young, about 6 or 7, I did not make it to the toilet á
on time.  I hid the dirty trousers in the cellar as I feared itá
being discovered by my parents."
"When the literature teacher made me recite a poem in the middle á
of the class and I had to gesticulate."
When I bought new clothes and put them on.
"When I overslept for the second time on the day I had an á
examination."
"I was walking to school and I passed by a red cross post where á
there were many soldiers.  They began to pass remarks at me."
"During my Highschool time I was chairman of the student's á
comitee. In this function I once had to make a speech to a large á
audience and I was very nervous. After three sentences I forgot á
my text."
"On the train a drunk person touched my baby and I reacted very á
disapprovingly.  I felt ashamed later as the person had not been á
aggressive though he could have been."
"When my boyfriend revealed that he knew that I had discovered á
things of an important nature about him, I felt ashamed as I had á
not mentioned it earlier."
When my friend had a child out of wedlock.
When I did not inform my friends of my forthcoming birthday.
"When I was in lower six I joined an interview group to á
interview the general public.  One of my friends in the group á
lost her purse and she was very nervous.  Five of us had to go á
another place so we left her, and planned to see her later.  Then á
I"
About Sweden's arms exports.
"A friend of mine had said something about not liking to come to á
my place just before coming to my place.   In the meanwhile I got á
to learn about this from another friend of mine and when she á
arrived at my place I really treated her badly.  I was lat"
"When my first sexual intercourse turned out to be a flop.  I was á
in a panic and ended up without an erection."
"I was dancing in a theatre.  I was not sure whether some frieends á
of mine had come to see me.  I was very scared of doing things á
wrong."
"When I made acquaintance with the parents of my boyfriend for the á
first time. They spoke Limburgian (a dutch dialect) and one of my á
first remarks was that I disliked Limburgian dialect."
"When I do not succeed in making myself clear to other people. á
When they do not understand what I say."
"When I had not prepared my contribution to the group as á
thoroughly as the other members, with the result that the á
overall result was poor."
"When my father found me in bed with a girl, we were deep in actioon á
when he entered the room."
"Our teacher had invited us to lunch and once at the canteen we á
started introducing ourselves.  Two of the boys showed a lot of á
interest in knowing personal details and then they started á
talking about some activities held in the college.  I had littl"
"I was about to share lunch with my aunt's husband when she told á
me that I would have to wait and eat with my cousins."
"When we received  our academic result I learnt that my  results á
were bad as I had not done my best.  The results of my á
accquaintances were good and when they asked me about my results á
I really did not want to answer."
"When I gave water to the plants of a friend. Then one plant fell á
over, and a little statue broke. I, of course, had to tell him á
everything."
When I entered a bar looking for a friend.
"When friends found out that I had been lying about where I had á
been on a particular occasion."
When money was stolen from my pocket.
"When I met a friend whom I had not seen for a long time and á
heard all about her troubles, I thought that I should have got á
in touch with her earlier."
"When my darling found me walking hand in hand with another girl á
whom I loved also. "
The discovery that one has only thought of oneself.
"When I blamed my failure to the bias and favouritism in the        á
marking system, in fact I had not worked hard enough."
In an important situation for me, my father behaved inadequately.
[ No response.]
"I felt ashamed when a friend, I had always respected, insulted me á
in public.  He was drunk."
"When I was young I was told to to the shop to buy a dozen eggs.  á
I went and asked for one egg and the people in the shop laughed á
at me and so did my family when I told them what had happened."
[ No response.]
"I made a very insulting remark against a person whom I care for á
very much. This event was caused by a third person who didn't á
like the person I insulted."
"I got pass marks in the H.S.S compulsory courses while most á
people performed well."
"I was drinking a glass of wine and eating something when there á
suddenly appeared pictures about the famine in some parts of á
Africa."
"When I dropped a bottle in the state liquor store and everyboby á
started laughing."
My love proposal was turned down by a lady I really loved.
"After a party in which I made love with a boy in public. Later on á
I heard that others were talking about me and called me a slut."
"I was with my colleagues and we met an elderly man who was very á
drunk, as he approached us he started to undress."
"My teacher reminded us not to do a Summer job, however I did it á
for two months.  Yesterday I was chatting with my teacher and á
when we talked of the Summer job, I felt ashamed."
"A few days back I had a tutorial class and the teacher randomly á
assigned one person in each group to make a presentation.  The á
discussion in our group had been confused and the presentation á
was not very well prepared.  Unfortunately I was selected t"
"The mother of a friend of mine passed by me and saw me sitting á
on a boy's lap.  I tried to greet her but could not help á
blushing."
"One day when I came back home, I found my favourite dish broken.  á
I blamed the servant for it, later I found out that it was not á
the servant but my daughter who had broken it."
When I was given detention at secondary school.
"When the brother-in-law of a girlfriend of mine found us in a á
bedroom with clothes and panties spread all over the place."
"When I didn't meet an appointment I had made. The person phoned á
me but I thought of something (I told I was ill) so that I didn't á
have to go."
"When I almost did something awful with a friend of mine and á
myself."
When I excreted on the mat instead of the potty.
"A teacher spent a lot of time helping me without wanting to be á
paid for it. For the exam I didn't got a good grade and I felt á
ashamed."
"I was going around with a foreigner's wife and my entire family á
got to know about it, this was just when I had become a á
Christian."
My behaviour at a recent party.  I passed out early, luckily.
"When I did not do well in the PG310 test I, I got only 4 marks á
above the pass marks despite my effort.  I felt bad because quite á
a number of friends did better."
"In my opinion guilt is a feeling which goes together with shame. á
Here then I refer to the situation of guilt."
"During a lecture six students (including me) were asked to leave á
the class as we had not prepared for the lesson.  I felt ashamed á
and angry."
"The time I shouted at most of my friends at a party.  It was as if á
 all my friends had done something wrong, or may be it was the á
influence of the beer."
"I was eating in a very nice restaurant, when the servant asked á
whether I liked the food I told him that I liked it but that á
there was one thing which wasn't so good. The servant than worked á
very hard to make it good."
"When I promised to help a friend over a weekend and did not keep á
the promise."
When I proposed love to a girl and she turned me down.
"During the English lesson we were required to do a play.  A few á
days after doing it the teacher asked us to do it again at a meeting  á
and I forgot my part."
Once I did not have enough money to pay for a coffee.
None.
[ When I acted against my mind or conscious.]
"I met a friend in a discotheque. he was with a girl and he told á
me that she was not his girlfriend.  I, to say something, á
commented that she must be a viscious woman.  He then told me á
that she was his girl."
I felt very ashamed at having got a book by force from a girl.
"When I was a child it was found out that I had taken off my á
clothes outdoors.  It was summer and my friend and I were out á
in the woods.  It had felt exciting at that time.  My parents á
discovered that my trousers were back to front and I felt á
asham"
"I lost my temper at my mother while she was teaching me.  I felt á
ashamed and sorry at having hurt my loving mother."
When a person whom I do not want to see is continously present.
[ Never felt the emotion.]
My guilty behaviour was found out by others.
"I received the results of the test paper of my major subject and á
I found that my result was not as good as a classmate who had á
recently changed his major subject.    I felt very ashamed."
When I wore a grotesque figure hanging down my back.
When I met a friend of mine after several months.  
"I was swimming in the river and I lost the top of my bikini.  I á
did not notice it and came out of water.  There was a á
disagreeable classmate watching the scene."
Once I answered my father rudely.
[ No response.]
Confession to my parents about my involvement in a moped theft.
At the seaside, when a wave suddenly came and took off my bikini.
"We were at a party, this guy I liked and me.  I really loved him á
and gathered enough courage to ask him to kiss me.  He did not do á
it but instead asked me what I would like for my birthday.  I á
told him that I would like a kiss more than anything els"
"When I realized that I had a hole in my trousers after having gone á
for a walk."
"I made a comment and it was interpreted completely differently á
from what I had meant.  When I said it I realized how my mother á
had understood it."
When I got 1 mark in an Abnormal Psychology exam.
Can't think of any.
"At a meeting with over one hundred people, they decided who had to speak á
from the stand by drawing lots."
"When I talked maliciously about a colleague at work to someone á
else.  Immediately afterwards I felt ashamed."
"When I was in F4 I led my class to a riot.  However the form á
master said that my conduct was good and asked me to tell him the á
names of those who had taken part in it.   I replied that I did á
not know."
"During a class I was asked a question which I did not hear very á
clearly, so I gave an answer which was not related to the á
question and everyone started laughing at me."
I fell outside the door of my house.
"When I went to my boyfriend's house for lunch and saw his á
parents, I felt that they were watching me all the time."
"During a meeting I said something wrong and the others laughed at á
me."
"When I stole a packet of cigarettes from a neighbour  and the á
next day I owned up and returned it."
"One day I was the leader of the weekly meeting of the Church á
fellowship.  That day I had been preparing for the exams and did á
not estimate the time to travel to the church right and I was á
twenty minutes late.  As I had not prepared well I led the á
"
"When I ate my sister's food and then she found out that it was á
me.  I felt very ashamed but still refused to admit that it was á
me."
When as an 8 year old, I wet myself in school.
"We had made an appointment to complete together a piece of work. á
It appeared that I was the only one who hadn't prepared anything."
"When I failed one of the tests because I had not worked hard á
enough."
When relatives have acted strangely, and unfriendly towards me.
"I think that the only time I really felt shame was when I was á
very young and I had to defecate on the street.  I was very á
worried in case someone should see me."
"Once by coincidence I clutched a stranger (in a rather intimate á
way), thinking it was my boyfriend. When by hindsight I á
feel ashamed when thinking about it."
"One night I had a sexual intercourse with another man.  My sexual á
desire and my curiosity had made me jump into bed with him.  I am á
ashamed of myself now."
"I was saying bad things about a man I had never seen.  I was á
with a friend and did not know that she was related to this man.  á
My friend did not tell me about it and I discovered this myself."
"My cousin and I were at the farm and at night we drunk like fools á
and made a lot of noise.  We had drunk two much of wine."
"A girl in our class was nicknamed ""fatsy"". Later, I heard that á
she suffered from diabetes mellitus."
"After I had given the wrong answer to my students they pointed á
it out to me and I had to correct myself."
"I cried for 3 hours because I felt very miserable. Then I called á
my boyfriend and he said lovely things to me. After this feeling á
disappeared I felt ashamed."
"I had a short lasting sexual relationship with someone I didn't á
love."
"I greeted and embraced the wrong person thinking that it was my á
friend."
"A few days back I had to ask a professor a ridiculous question á
because I had lost at a game of cards and had to pay a forfeit."
I was misbehaving in the agency.
"I ride my motorbike in my village and everyone stares at me as if á
I was a rare specimen."
"I was taking a shower in a cubicle in France. Then I discovered á
that a few children were loking at me from the adjacent cubicle."
"A customer at the shop where I worked came in and asked if the á
goods that he had ordered had arrived.  I had totally á
forgotten about this order and I tried to offer weak excuses."
When my dad caught me with a honey (girlfriend) in my bedroom.
"When I was young my mother told the neighbour that I had wet the á
bed.  I felt ashamed thinking that the neighbour's children would á
get to know about it."
"I had lunch in a restaurant with a friend and I paid the bill.  á
The change was that of a two dollar and a ten cent coin.  As I á
was talking with my friend I took the two dollar coin and forgot á
to leave a tip."
My inability to assert myself positively in a group.
"A friend came for dinner with me at home. His parents are á
ordinary people. My mother, however, used the very expensive á
porcelain dinner-service and the silver cutlery. I felt very á
ashamed."
"I guess I have often been ashamed after having talked badly of á
other people."
"When I was an evening school teacher it was my job to make the á
coffee but I was not able to get the coffee ready on time and I á
thus arrived half an hour late to the class.  On top of this the á
coffee was undrinkable."
"I feel this emotion very often when I try to express my feelings á
in public, because other people do not understand my reactions á
and think that I am silly. "
"When I blurted out an answer in class without having been asked á
to do so.  The teacher told me that it was bad manners to do so."
"When I was a child my parents caught me with a pornographic á
magazine."
"When I state things with great positiveness and try to convince á
others, and it appears that my statement is not right."
"It was my birthday and all the members of the group made me a á
surprise in a public place at 10 p.m. giving me flowers and suvenirs."
"When a friend told me a story and I stayed dumb because I had no á
story to tell."
"A day I was with my boyfriend and a couple of friends in a bar, á
and he said something that I didn't like (I don't remember what). á
Without thinking I slept him in his back, getting ashamed and á
sorry just after."
"When I was young I was playing football near my parent's house á
and while playing I fell on the ground. At first I thought I was á
not seen by anybody, but when my mother laughed I felt very á
ashamed."
"Some times I was ashamed of presenting seminaries or even to á
speak in class."
"I flet shameful when I learnt that I cooked Nsima which was full á
of lamps in it."
"When my father came into the bathroom and saw me standing there á
naked."
"I once felt shame when I failed to fulfil the promise to marry a á
daughter of a certain gentleman."
After lot of explanation, to fail in my work.
When I had to act alone a character for a public (40 people).
"When I was a child, I thought that I had to be ashamed when á
asking and doing certain forbidden things."
I fell off a bike in the presence of a lot of people.
"Sometime back I was coming from the wards and lice were all over á
my uniform since patient's blankets have a lot of lice. It á
happened that my boyfriend picked some lice from my white uniform. á
I was so ashamed."
Teacher suspected me stealing money.
"When I went to a sauna with my father for the first time (I was á
16). When I entered the sauna naked, I felt ashamed for a short á
time."
"When my mother looked in my drawer (where I keep my personal á
things) and she found some porno photos that I have kept from á
more than a week, and split it."
Not collecting homeworks in time to give the teacher.
When I had my first sexual relation and it didn't work.
"When I talked to a psychotherapist for the first time, I started á
to cry; first I talked to him but he did not say anything and á
after a while I was crying."
"I felt shame when I had to talk with a person that I hadn't seen for á
many years. Shame that he wouldn't recognize me or that I á
wouldn't know what to say."
"When I had not done well in Geography at my MCE I was expected to á
get more than I did."
"There was a time when my room looked terribly untidy; just at á
that time my aunt came to see me; fortunately I could prevent her á
from entering the room."
"I was very ashamed when I failed a test in Standard 7. The á
teacher told the other students to shout and laugh at me."
"When I went to a halloween party and had to walk through a shopping á
center dressed like a witch."
"When I was in the 12th standard, I could not speak English.  One á
day, while  talking with my relatives I used a wrong word and  á
my cousin corrected me, believing that I did not know English.  I á
really felt ashamed then.á
"
Did not finish homework.
"When I began to date, the first gestures of affection made me á
feel ashamed.
Note: for GUILT go to record n¦231"
"I put an end to a friendship with a girl - I had only pretended á
love and affection to be able to sleep with her."
"Once I had torn a few pages off a library book and I felt ashamed á
at this."
"We where in a bar and my friend had a fight with some guys who á
were in the table aside."
"I think I felt ashamed for the first time when I entered a night á
club."
"The day my fiancee told me that it was bad that I could not write á
my mother tongue."
"In the last day of carnaval I met a boy and began to flirt with á
him. I was in love with him. When he introduced me to his friends á
I died of shame because I was with them before, I met my á
boyfriend in carnaval."
"I just opened the bathroom without knocking not knowing that á
someone was bathing inside, it happened to be my father."
"I had never made a malicious joke in front of my boyfriend. Last á
week I did it I was funny, he loved it, and I died of shame."
"[ I was not, I am not, I will never ever feel ashamed of á
myself for something I have done.]"
"Somebody who knows me very well discovered that I had told him a á
lie."
"I was working in I. when a friend of mine borrowed his car so I á
could get bach there, I had to come to S.Paulo and his car was á
here. He said :""When you get the car tell my mother that you are á
only taking the car bacause I asked, for she doesn't like"
"When somebody I knew greeted me and started to talk with me and I á
didn't know, I couldn't remember who he was."
"In our flat the bath-tub is in the kitchen. At the beginning I á
had very intensive feelings of shame when I had a bath and people á
were in the kitchen."
"Truely, I got very ashamed when my brother was sent out of á
Business Machines Limited Company due to improper handling of the á
office equipment in Sales Services."
"In a play (secret friend) during the time of the high school I á
had to give a present to a boy and I was very ridiculous because á
of this."
When I had been angry at my friend without any reason.
"It was in a group situation: suddenly it was my turn to say something, 
but I felt that I was not able to express myself very well - I felt á
ashamed and blushed."
"When I had insulted my father two years back, at that time I was á
very angry due to some reasons."
"In a school parting we agreed to go to a restaurant. á
We met at school and we separated us in several cars. My car á
broke and we arrived late. All those who already had arrived á
stand up and applauded us when we entered two hours late. á
All the restau"
"I went to visit Montrose home for crippled children to interview á
a handicapped child. I interviewed two boys and it went really á
well. I promised I would visit them, but never got the time. Now I á
hope they've forgotten me, but I feel ashamed of letti"
"I wore a dirty dress a certain day I was going to town I met an á
old friend who made a comment about my dress so I felt ashamed."
"I tried to pass an examination particularly well, but I did it á
worse than ever. I felt ashamed."
"When I was not in a position to control myself.  I had said too á
much and had been cruel with no other than my mother."
"I slept with a man purely because I found him physically á
attractive and was under the influence of alcohol."
I was the last among the list of failures in my class of Biology.
"I recently became sexually involved with my sister's lover. I á
care for him very much, but I am ashamed of the hurt I may cause á
her."
"There is one thing which makes me feel shameful,  when I see á
friends of my age group working and earning a lot, when I am á
still studying.  A friend I met a week ago after a period of 5 á
years is earning more than Rs 3000/ month."
"When I wet my head (or bed ?) one day my sister discovered it and reported á
it to the other siblings. So my mother had to scold me."
I can't remember ever feeling shame.
"For a medical check-up, we - boys and girls - had to take off our á
clothes with the exception of our underwear. Then we had to go á
into another classroom where older pupils were sitting and á
staring at us."
[ Sorry, I was never ashamed about anything in my life.]
"First weekend back home after one week at Uni I scolded one of my á
sister's best friends for using our telephone. Very silly, but I á
was annoyed because she was there at a time when I needed to be á
with my family."
"Because I was lazy and unthoughtful I did not get into contact á
with a very close friend when she shifted from the Gold Coast to á
Brisbane, for a month, despite her efforts to contact me. I felt á
shamed when I finally confronted her again."
"I took the tram without paying. There were many people around me á
when I was caught by a controller. I felt ashamed but also angry."
"I bought a possible answer to a homework problem which was á
completely inapplicable to the question due to my not having read á
about the subject matter."
"My P.T. instructor also works as a masseur. He wanted to massage á
me, therefore I had to undress. For the first few times this was á
not easy for me; I got gradually used to it."
I was very fat, and was ashamed of my body.
"When I was 12 years old I was caught by the Ticket Collector when á
travelling without a ticket."
"When I had to go to the gynecologist and to sit on that special á
chair, I felt ashamed."
"When I went to meet the family of my boyfriend in a party in his á
house. His mother was eager to know me and all his friends ready á
to make jokes about the situation."
China cannot give your lectures bigger place and sound system.
"When a certain drunk man slapped my buttocks when I was quietly á
standing waiting for a bus."
"A friend started to insult another person without reason and I á
felt ashamed of her behavior."
Shame of being reprehended.
Failed to recagnize a friend on the street.
"When the teacher asked me to read my composition that was the á
homework I stood up and invented one because I hadn't done it. A á
colleague saw that in my copy book there was nothing written and á
he accused me and so I was called in the director's room."
"In a restaurant, I made the acquaintance of a boy who always told á
the same things in a very loud voice. I laughed and said to him á
that he always repeated the same things. Some time later I heard á
that he had undergone a complicated brain operation."
"I was really shameful when my mother beat me in the presence of á
my friends because I didn't cook lunch up until 2 o'clock."
I was ashamed to tell my mother that I fell down with a bicycle.
"Talking to friends about how old you are and we cannot be as á
successful as you at your age."
I made a comment that at the moment didn't fit.
"A friend of mine has not very much money. Therefore, once I á
stayed with him and his girlfriend, I bought some meat, but nobody á
wanted to go and prepare it for dinner. My friend said ""I thought á
you wanted to invite us for dinner"". ""Of course"", I said"
Shame of not doing something well.
Saw something stupid and ignorant happening in the countryside.
"I played in a stage play. Suddenly, in front of 200 people, I á
could not remember the words I had to say."
One day in the intimity with my girlfriend I had an ejaculation.
Swearing in public.
When my mother found out that I smoke maryhuana.
Failing an examn.
"I was very fat and felt absolutely unwell. I was afraid of á
leaving the house and getting to know new people."
Shame I feel when I am not properly dressed.
Zhu Jianhau did not break the world record for China.
"I was learning judo and my instructor wanted me to assist him in á
teaching girls judo at a suburban college.  I was just a beginer, á
and he made me a green belt so that I would be able to command á
respect.  This was against my principles, and yet I all"
"When I don't say the truth, when I don't do a certain thing á
thanks to my laziness."
"[ Sometimes I have by accident said to another person something á
in which it is easy to read a negative attitude.]"
"When I saw my father coming out of the bathroom. He thought that á
he was alone at home and came out without his clothes."
[ No response.]
"I felt a sense of shame when I compromised a colleague of mine. I á
got an information from him which I quite out of place shared á
with another colleague of mine and it resulted in an unpleasant á
consequence for him."
"While working as a domestic helper, one day I had not cleaned up á
very well and they made a remark about it."
"This is an event I will never forget.  I am considered a good á
mimic.  This particular day we were waiting for a professor á
to take her class.  This  professor had a peculiar accent and a á
very horrible way of lecturing and to top it all we had this á
"
"I feel ashamed at the fact that even after 35 years of independence   á
70% of the Indian poulation is still below the poverty line."
"In the traffic I insulted a man who crossed my way. Afterwards I á
paired with him, and felt shame because of mine lack of pacience á
and ridiculous attitude."
"When I tried to hide a fact from a person for irrelevant reasons á
and considered such an attitude childish."
"I had this feeling before my graduation and never dared to speak á
to my relatives and  friends.  Because of this feeling I would á
avoid situations, however I do not know the reason for this."
"I had been away all night without having told my parents about á
it.  In the morning when I came home, my mother looked tired.  á
She said that she had been awake all night because of me and that á
she was angry and disappointed."
"I was talking with an aunt of mine that I adore and I found á
courage to say ""I love you"" and just after that came the shame."
"Not quick enough to help the lectors to catty things for the á
lecture."
"Some time back I had signed a letter which I had not read.  What á
had happened is that something had been written against my á
friend and this went to the higher authorities.  My friend asked me  á
-""you also signed ?""   "
Walking on the street passing by an air duct, my skirt went up.
Not brave enough to take up a challenge in a group discussion.
"[ I have felt shame but am unable to remember any particular á
incident.]"
"During a family reunion, they started talking about me wearing an á
ear-ring."
Not being able to have a party at home with friends.
"My boyfriend's mother, whom I had not met earlier, made an á
unexpected visit.  I was lying lazily on the bed, reading a á
newspaper and my boyfriend was studying."
"I had called a boy who had dated me, and told him that I was ill, á
while, actually, I didn't want to go out with him, later on, he asked á
me if I was feeling better, then I felt ashamed."
"I was taking place in an anti nuclear protest and was shouting á
protest loudly to some American sailors of the U.S. Texas á
submarine. A guy came up to me and said that's your brother á
screaming at, I felt shame and I realized screaming at another á
per"
"One day I addressed my husband in an abusive manner in front of á
his friends.  Later on I realized this myself and felt ashamed of á
myself."
"I put on a lot of weight in a few months and every time I met á
someone I knew would avoid them, usually by hiding because my á
self image was low and I was ashamed of what I had done to á
myself."
"I told my friend about how I had calculated my salary by cheating a á
little.  When my friend remarked about it, I understood that it á
was wrong to do so, and I felt ashamed."
"I told some acquaintances of mine something that I regretted á
later."
"When I went out with a friend of mine to meet her ex-boyfriend á
who didn't know that she was engaged to be married."
"I remember that once, a friend did not co-operate with me due to á
some unavoidable reasons.  Unaware of this I treated her unjustly á
till I realized everything, and then I felt ashamad of my deeds. "
I had borrowed some money and I exceeded the time-limit.
"When I realized that I had been wrong about a person close to me, á
because of pre-set ideas and prejudices."
"When I had to prepare and read a paper to my fellow students but á
I didn't cope with the task."
[ ....has not really happened.]
"Some days ago I fell down at a public place, I came into notice á
but thank God I was not mocked at. Though it hurt badly, at the á
first moment I felt shame, not ache."
Not being able to be selected for the dancing team.
After an event in which I felt that I had acted unfairly.
I was made a very sharp remark at a rehearsal.
"When I was going downhill on skis, and fell down twice the first á
time."
"When I was detained one day in school, by the vice-principal, for á
indiscipline."
"In primary school I once faltered while answering a question and á
the others started laughing."
"I felt ashamed of feeling sorry about myself when I passed á
through the situation of being betrayed by my girlfriend."
Not having good marks like other people for homeworks.
"I felt ashamed to be Brazilian and to live under a military á
dictatorship that despoiled the people, when during my military á
service."
"I had misbehaved at a party and did not wish to meet the person á
in question later."
"A few months back I had gone to my friend's place and they offered á
me tea and coffee.  I do not have the habit of drinking tea or á
coffee and so they offered me a glass of milk instead, so I felt ashamed."
When I fell down.
"I feel guilty as I am not working, and even my studies are not á
progressing."
Saw the film about Eight Nations Army conquering Beijing.
I tried to date a girl, but she refused.
[ Never experienced.]
"When I accused unjustly a person of robbery, who proved me the á
contrary, almost caused a public fight."
"My teacher asked me a question which I failed to answer and I was á
told to stay behind after the class and give the answer after á
studying it from a book."
"As a small boy, I took a coin from an empty taxi cab.  My mother á
saw it and told the driver about it.  I even knew the driver."
"I feel ashamed every time that someone makes me a positive or á
negative critic."
When a group of friends began to make critics about me.
Did not finish homework.
"I had an intimate relation with my boyfriend, but unfortunately á
we had sexual problems; therefore I deceived him, but I was á
ashamed when I told my friend about it."
"When I realized that my bathing suit was spotted, I had became á
menstruated."
I gave a wrong answer at school.
"Saying something quite rude, but in jest, about a photograph of á
someone, but it didn't quite turn out that way."
"My friend told me in a fairly loud voice the blunders she á
committed last night."
"When I realized that I belonged to a country which is amongst the á
poorest in the world and that inspite of having the resources we á
do not utilize them.  I was ashamed at myself and my country, á
shame at the lack of parity between the lifestyles of th"
"Sincerely I'm a very timid guy and so even in very simple á
situations sometimes I am ashamed."
"Sitting on the bus seats supposed for disabled people, children á
and old people (by mistake)"
"In the classroom we discussed with the teacher. He told me things á
that affected directly in a negative way my job and my behavior á
in the classroom in front of the other pupils."
"When I was seven years old, I stole a chewing-gum from a big á
glass bowl on the counter of a nearby shop, and I got caught."
"I always feel ashamed when I do not succeed in accomplishing á
something in which I had put in all my efforts."
"I was in a bus with my school material when I fell and sat on the á
lap of another passenger."
My sister was afraid of her husband.
"Yesterday while playing volley ball, there was one person extra    á
and somebody had to out.  A mess worker and I were the  á
last ones to arrive and we had arrived at the same time.  á
Rightfully one of us had to opt out of the game, as I was á
delaying"
[ No response.]
"When I was still a child I was told off in face of other persons á
for having touched an object that didn't belong to me."
"I felt ashamed of my body in spite of knowing that it is more or á
less beautiful and also knowing that my boyfriend considers me á
beautiful, but this was only in the beginning."
"While attending some affairs, which were taking some time, with á
a bank officer, I felt that my clothes and appearance were out of place, too á
raggy."
"I had reacted angrily at a friend for no fault of his.  I had á
raised my voice and had not cared for his opinion."
When I arrived late at the job and met the most troublesome boss.
Found out that I am not good at football.
"The day my boyfriend saw and touched my breasts when I was á
without my shirt, only with my pants."
I feel ashamed when I am praised.
When a friend of mine visited me and my house was in a mess.
"I am ashamed of the horrible way I used to treat my little á
sister."
When I had a Latin examination in school.
"This was when one of the Clinical officers scolded us in the á
hospital on how to make beds but we did not deserve to be á
scolded."
"Upon returning from a journey of about two weeks duration, I á
found that a collection of pornographic literature had been á
removed from my room I had previously thought that no one was á
aware of the existence of this material."
"Some time ago we had a tournament in our tennis-club. For á
tactical reasons I was chosen to play against a much weaker á
player than I am. Although it would have been enough simply to á
win the game, I defeated him extremely. This would not have been á
n"
"I had been rude to my mother at a time when she needed á
comforting, not anger (death of my sister)."
"I was very ashamed when I was neglected by a certain friend whom á
I was thinking loved me very much."
"I felt ashamed when my lecturer said in class that I á
happened to be the dullest of all."
"I asked my friend to come with me to a disco because I wanted to á
be with a person I know well. But when I amused myself with á
others I let my friend sit alone, although I had asked her to á
come."
"At a cross-country race I wanted to take a short-cut (which is á
not allowed). I was caught and disqualified. All my friends had á
observed that."
"It was when my father caught me with a girl in dark corners and á
asked me what I was doing there."
"When I failed Psychology examination when most of the students á
passed."
"It was the time when everybody spoke about and discussed á
Hainburg. I was also asked for my opinion. I was ashamed because á
I had no firm view of the whole thing and therefor was not able á
to join the conversation."
"When I realised that I had become too emotionally involved with á
the person I'm going out with, and when I began to like someone á
else and questioned whether I really care about person I'm with."
"I was ashamed with my biology lecturer when he asked me a á
question and I could not answer it."
"I was in my room, I just heard that my Uncle had been caught in á
somebody's house with somebody's wife. He had to appear in court. á
I went to see what would happen to him."
"I had promised to contact a friend about a particular matter by a á
certain date, then thought no more about it until the friend á
reminded me after the date had passed."
"At a carneval-party I smooched with a man - some days later I was á
rather ashamed for that."
"The mother of a small child found me shaking the child in á
exasperation, because I couldn't get it to sleep."
"When a certain girl I believed to be my life partner refused an á
engagement."
"I do not seem to feel emotion such as shame, guilt or fear - far á
out !"
"Following heavy stirring / ridiculing a close friend who was á
very vulnerable to such attack - inspiring fierce, defensive á
counter-attack."
"I was ashamed at myself when I saw that the other boys and girls   á
of my age earn a lot of money by doing very good and hard work. "
"I was ashamed when a certain friend of mine I used to move with á
failed to propose to a lady yet we always said to ourselves no á
lady can refuse our proposal."
"Having had a very heated argument with my sister - I began á
hitting her about the head with a newspaper I was holding."
"In school I was very bad in running long distances and my á
class-mates laughed at me for this reason."
Cheating in a minor geography exam at school.
"We were writing Primary school leaving Examinations when I had á
fallen at the steps going into the Exam room."
"One day mother slaughtered a chicken for a brother who had come á
back for holiday. In everybody's absence I opened the foodstore á
and ate all internal organs of the chicken. When mother á
discovered, we were all called and I was found with hands stained"
"After a party I spent the night with a friend. We both were á
drunk, the morning was disillusioning. A friend was me leaving á
the room and I felt shabby and immoral."
"During an argument an acquaintance accused me of having insulted á
her parents by having had sex in their house which they á
overheard."
"I was ashamed one day when we were found stealing and roasting á
maize cobs from Agricultural experimental projects."
"When I failed my Primary school leaving Examinations. I never á
thought I would fail. When I heard I had failed I really felt á
ashamed of myself."
"I put my head into the pullover of a girl to see her breasts. The á
girl looked at me so that I felt ashamed."
"I was walking outside the union refec after rain when I tripped á
and fell."
"I had been telling lies and people discovered instantly that I á
was telling lies. I felt very shameful and I felt like á
disappearing from people."
"One day I was with my girlfriend and other friends were behind á
us, I fell down because the place was slippery and I really felt á
ashamed."
"When I woke up after a night of drinking I couldn't remember and á
discovered several untoward things had occurred."
"I had to go to the doctor's because of a veneral disease. I told á
the doctor that I must have been infected by my boy-friend. This á
was not true, but I was ashamed to tell the truth."
"When parents of a certain girl refused to let me marry their á
daughter because I was not fit to do so yet the girl accepted á
everything and later she followed what her parents insisted and á
she told me never to talk to her again."
"I feel shame every time I think of very dear friends of mine á
abroad who were family to me for a year, and now 2 years later, I á
have attempted, but have not actually gone through with á
corresponding with them, to express my feelings and gratitude."
Caught cheating on a diet.
I had to pay a fine because of speeding.
"At one occasion I was ashamed of being refused after a proposal á
for a friendship with a certain girl. I was ashamed because she á
refused publically in the presence of my fellow friends."
"I met a woman who was looking for our house. She stopped me but I á
ran away. When I arrived at home I found the same woman and she á
told my parents what had happened so I felt ashamed."
"Some persons, who are important for me, came to see me and I had á
not washed the dishes."
"When I was 6 or 7 years old, I pulled down the trousers of a á
friend because I wanted to know what she looked like. My mother á
watched that and (as a punishment) sent me into the house. We á
never spoke about that; I think it was as embarassing for her "
"News was spread that I had been found doing sexual intercourse á
with a small girl. At first this annoyed me but later on I became á
ashamed because many people seemed to believe it."
"When I was a child: I had told my mother a lie and she found it á
out."
"When I was a child, I had a medical check-up. I had to undress á
myself and was examined by several doctors."
"I felt shame when I was asked by my cousin that I promised to buy á
her a birthday present but I didn't buy it for her in front of á
friends."
"On one occasion whilst engaging in horseplay with my girlfriend, á
I caused her to be physically harmed."
"I answered a certain question from Dr. Maqgda wrongly. She asked á
something about Femur and my answer was saying something á
concerning the brain. So I was very ashamed amongst my friends."
"After an oral examination I shook the professor's hand, but he á
had only stretched it out for my ball-point-pen."
"My boyfriend had drunk too much and beaten me. When I had to show á
the letter the door, which was almost crashed, I felt ashamed."
When I made a fool at an examination.
"I had high-heeled shoes one time, but a certain girl who saw the á
shoes told me that they were out of fashion and I looked as an á
old man when I was in those shoes."
"When someone pointed out that I was proud, yet I didn't dress up á
properly. This was when I and my friend went for a dnce one á
Saturday."
"I look up to my Karate-teacher. When I came to a training lesson á
after I had not trained for one week, I was totally stiff. I was á
ashamed."
"I am left-handed. When I attended the first form, we learned to á
write with pens. I smeared everything I had written. All my á
friends had written well and wanted to know why the teacher was á
looking at my note-book. I was ashamed."
"I was very much ashamed after a friend beat me at school and I á
was defeated."
"When I was 12 years old, some friends of our family had come to á
watch TV. I lay on the floor and moved my pelvis. When the other á
people had gone, my mother told me that it had looked as if I had á
wanted to make sex."
"I went to see a friend. There were other people, too, and á
everybody brought some present. I was the onlyone who brought á
nothing. My friend was very hospitable and did not show anything á
- although I knew how he felt."
"In our class we had a test on Nursing, so a friend from the Army á
was caught peeping, by using a paper which had already answers á
which was written by him. So all of us from the Army got ashamed."
A friend of mine was shouting at me in a group of juniors.
"One day I went for a bath. I took off my clothes and as soon as I á
had finished my brother came in. I felt sad and I found no reason á
why he came in."
Caused fault in V.C.R. by not following instructions carefully.
"When I had slept with a boy for the first time I felt ashamed for á
three reasons. First, because I was only 13 years old, second, á
because I did not really like him, third, because he had caught á
me napping."
Parents finding out I smoked.
"It was when we were beaten or lost the football match by 5-1 and á
then I scored the third goal to my own side."
When my boy-friend left me and I wanted to persuade him to stay.
"When I decided not to out any longer with a girl whom I liked á
quite a lot.  This made me feel low for a some time."
"When I stayed on a nudism beach, a man was watching me in a á
disagreeable way. I had the feeling that he was examining my á
body."
"Once I went home totally drunk and roused all our neighbours from á
sleep."
"I was sitting in a restaurant with friends. They asked me á
something which they thought I should know. Actually I know it, á
but at that time I was not able to remember it."
"When I broke the piggy bank of my brother and my mother á
discovered that."
"I spent an evening with my girl-friend. When we wanted to go to á
bed I was totally drunk. Next morning I felt rather ashamed."
"In 1972 I failed my Examination because of my own crooky á
behaviour of dodging from Examinations."
"During a discussion I said something rather stupid and á
unnecessary."
"One day I was supposed to go to a movie with my boyfriend. In the á
morning I went to see my Auntie and I didn't come back up to á
evening."
"My girl-friend and I live in one flat with another couple. We get á
along very well and usually we share everything. Once we two were á
sitting in our room and eating a cake when the others came in."
"When I bought new skis; I was ashamed to tell the assistant that á
I am not good at skiing and therefor bought racing skis."
Soiled my short trousers with faeces.
"My mother and my grandmother were talking about one of my á
grandmother's friends whom I hardly know. I gave some deprecatory á
comments on him whereupon my grandmother told me that the man had á
died recently."
"When I was a child, my uncle came to see us. I spit at him and á
ran out - I do not know the reason for that. My father came after á
me and insisted on my apologizing."
"An out-patient asked me to read for him a certain prescription á
but I was unable to do so. The patient was dissappointed and lost á
hope in me."
"After making a joke about a friend's marriage that was too á
personal."
"I felt the above condition when I was found in a house playing á
with another man's wife where I was asked questions and I was á
unable to answer."
"At a weekend's seminar my trousers suddenly burst, therefore I was á
prevented from participating in several activities."
"In a fight with my girlfriend in a luncheonette where everybody á
stared at me in such a way that I had to leave it."
"I felt it when I felt that I was being observed as an object of á
pleasure (sexual) when I opened and took off a shirt in a á
classroom at P.V.C."
"I was walking one day and I met a man who wanted to ask me about á
my brother but I didn't stop to hear what he was saying. I was á
ashamed when I found him at home and he told my brother what had á
happened."
"When I went to the sauna for the first time and there were men á
and women."
"It was my father's birthday party when I was asked to bring a á
tray of tea and other drinks."
"Once as a school girl I was copying at a class work and my á
teacher spotted me."
"A situation where we were the center of attention, and things á
happened without my control on them, that showed our disagreement, á
and ignorance."
"I went for a walk with a very close friend; we were talking about á
our problems, I told her lies."
"One of my best friends'fiancT broke off the relationship because á
his feelings for me were stronger than for her. I felt the same á
for him, but did not really encourage him to leave her or stay á
with her - still felt shame."
"I failed my Nutrition paper which was the paper ending the á
course."
When my new jeans split while I was with the youth group.
"When I was about seven or eight I was caught having stolen a á
doll's dress from my next-door neighbour."
"It was last week on Sunday that I was walking with my girlfriend á
along Kawale road going to town so I tried to stop a car for a á
lift and the driver didn't stop and I felt shame because people á
were looking at us."
"I was ashamed when I got the lowest result (mark) in class. All á
the same I didn't worry too much because I knew I would have got á
much better if I had read enough."
"Felt it after I spoke terribly (got mad at) the person who is the á
most important in my life."
"After failing a second attempt at Med 4, following a number of á
difficult personal circumstances."
"A day when I was getting out of the shower I covered only the á
front part of my body with a towel (I was 7 years old), and I á
didn't see that my cousin was in the room."
[ I am quite shameless, not applicable.]
Some men were talking about me and my sister.
"As a child - being sent to the shop by mother - buying some á
chocolate - getting caught by mother."
"When I was teasing a girl, who turned out to be my brother's á
dame."
"I felt something akin to shame after a heavy night of drinking, á
along with waking up with a woman I had just met whose husband á
was an epileptic. I was later to know that she knew my mother."
When I refused to fetch water for my aunty while she was busy.
"When I was a child I played my mother a nasty trick to make her á
feel hurt."
"I had written a ""love-letter"" to a class-mate of mine, this was á
meant to be a joke.  Unfortunately it fell in the wrong hands  á
and I had to face the consequences."
When bathing at surf beach & lost togs.
I confused a girl with another.
"At school I was bad in mathematics. Although my teacher had á
admonished me to do my homework, one day I had forgotten to do á
it. When my teacher noticed it, I blushed and was ashamed to be á
rebuked in front of the other pupils.á
"
"It was a shameful moment when I heard that I had failed my á
Primary School leaving Certificate Exam in 1978. My girlfriend á
was there when the news was released."
I was unaware that I had walked the streets in torn trousers.
"I insulted my friend for a small reason and after time I realised á
that I was wrong and felt ashamed; everytime I meet her I feel á
ashamed."
"When I was ten years old a classmate laughed at me because I had á
told him that my father had retired."
When I have a plain appearance.
[ No response.]
When I was a school girl and I copied at a class work.
[ Do not remember any incident.]
"I was once chatting with friends. Then some boys came and joined á
us. These boys took all my 3 friends away and I was left alone in á
shame without knowing where to go from there."
I lied to a friend.
"Had a very good friend. We grew apart I found myself running her á
down to other friends."
"I had a girlfriend in the same class I was. I did not do well in á
my Exams, but she did satisfactorily well and was taken into á
another class leaving me behind."
"When somebody suddenly said something (about me) at a wrong á
moment and I didn't agree (at that exact moment I was needing an á
extremely positive word)."
When my mother surprised me while masturbating.
"A girl I was with yelled something out to this group of guys I á
knew. It sounded really childish."
"I was ashamed of being laughed at by my colleagues when I failed á
to answer a question in the classroom."
"I was ashamed when my classmates discovered that I fell in love á
with an uneducated girl."
"When my mother asked me to do a job for her which does not á
require much effort on my part, yet I refused for selfish reasons á
and saw her have to do it."
"Once I spoke without thinking very much - it was quite a á
nonsense."
Lying to a friend about something that was trivial.
"I once proposed my own niece whom I did not know but I discovered á
after she was my girlfriend."
When I wanted to kiss a friend and didn't succeed, I felt shame.
"I came home from a party rather drunk. I said things I would á
never have said normally. Next morning I was terribly ashamed á
about what I had said."
"I felt ashamed one day when my teacher shouted at me in the á
presence of my boyfriend."
"A friend giving me an expensive Christmas gift while I gave her a á
cheap one."
"When I first failed my standard 8 exams for the first attempt for á
Form I selection."
"During the oral part of my final examination I made a mistake in á
speaking so that all the teachers laughed at me."
"When my best friend foud out I'd been lying about something I'd á
been doing behind her back."
"I experienced shame when I failed to keep a promise to meet my á
friend at the bus depot. He later came and asked me why I had not á
turned up."
"No specific instances - perhaps having lied as a child resulting á
in someone else being blamed for the event."
"When I hadn't studied for an exam, so I pretended to be sick so I á
wouldn't have to go to school. I lied to my mother - she realized á
I had been lying when she got home from work and found that I had á
been over to a friend's place."
Sending pictures home when I'd put on so much weight.
"I felt shame and I couldn't look into my teacher's eyes, after á
not attending his lectures."
I allowed my then boyfriend to touch me, if only briefly.
When harassed by this boy - it was sexual (refer to GUILT).
"When I told my sister I had slept with my boyfriend, and she at á
first was mad at me I then felt shame for this act, but not á
guilt."
"My father who is very quiet discovered I was going out with a á
coloured boy. He called me names and was really upset."
"I remember when I was in Standard 6, I failed one of the terminal á
tests and I told my parents that I had passed but after they á
found out from the class teacher that I had failed, I was proved á
a liar."
When my friends were rude to a girl. 
Falling over.
"Several years ago I was caught riding the train without a ticket. á
The station-mistress treated me like a criminal almost."
"The shame came when I was beaten by my teacher at school in front á
of boys and girls some of whom were my friends and a girlfriend á
apart from being classmates."
Getting slightly intoxicated at the 1984 I.C.C. Ball.
"I was ashamed when I was being introduced to the church á
congregation."
In a party of friends I got completely drunk.
"This situation happened when I was found kissing a girl who was á
my friend's girlfriend."
"I bacame involved with a boy for a very brief moment not because á
I liked him but because I needed some sort of company. The á
consequences weren't as I expected and caused me much shame."
"When I was little and didn't own up to placing a lolly on the á
varnish, this pulled it all off and I didn't admit my guilt."
"I felt ashamed when in a certain occasion I had to read a text á
and didn't stop stuttering."
"When I broke a tea saucer. I felt ashamed. This was during the á
birthday of my girlfriend."
"I was ashamed when my boyfriend went to sit with another girl á
when he invited me to come to watch Drama festival."
"When Dad went to a Sports Day and was the only parent there, and á
he was cheering for us."
"When I was little - Mum caught me telling a lie about who broke á
the cup."
"I am ashamed at myself sometimes when I am working with á
handicapped people and don't wish to be seen in public with them."
Not being able to answer question in a seminar.
"When I did poorly on a test and I knew that there wasn't an á
excuse for not doing better. Made mistakes I could not believe I á
made."
"When I was twelve I was babysitting some children but I did not á
act very responsibly and one of them was injured."
"When I got really drunk on Norvegian Indipendence Day, and was á
not allowed to participate in football (soccer) games for two á
weeks. That was very unpleasant."
"When I had not been accepted to a college which I dreamed of á
going to. I felt that I had let myself and my parents down."
"Felt ashamed when in a group conversation and could not á
understand words or comprehend the topic of discussion."
Insulted by a woman in public.
"My father was a member of the public Alcohol and Drugs Board, á
when I was picked up by the police for being drunk in a public á
place."
Haven't felt shame for ages.
"The first time I slept at my boyfriends house and had to walk á
down the hall to the shower in front of his housemates. I felt á
they were judging me."
"Telling friends about how my parents had been treating my á
brothers and sisters unfairly."
"At a private party I literally fell into the food. The party was á
completely ruined for the host, carpets had to be cleaned, etc."
Watching Muldoon act as my P.M.
I had just masterbated with another boy.
Not doing well in the examn.
"My failure to provide the appropriate emotional/spiritual level á
to a sexual relationship that had a large physical content. Born á
out of inconsistency with my personal beliefs and value shame at á
largely using this sexual partner."
Forgetting an important appointment.
Fooling around with this guy I did not know.
Cannot recall the emotion with any force.
"My first real experience with a boy. We were alone. I was quite á
young and pretty naive and he was pretty crude and real, sort of, á
macho. It was dark, at night during the summer and we were á
talking."
"Felt I had not appreciated my parents enough. Regretted the á
problems I'd caused."
"I didn't do an important job and it had an adverse effect on á
other people."
"When caught shoplifting and the police were called in parents á
also informed."
Can't remember that feeling.
"Being with a close friend, in the city, who was involved at the á
present point in time in outrageous activity."
"I slipped on butter one evening in the Dining Commons landed on á
my rear causing my tray also to land on the floor."
"I kicked the dog outside on a cold night because he was annoying á
me. The next day he came down with the flu and we thought he was á
going to die."
Finding out that China is backward in science.
Being caught in changing the truth (lying).
Insulted by classmate in public.
"A month ago I turned in an English paper in late after I had á
already had a previous paper late and promised not to do it á
again."
People impolite with me because I did not get a good report.
"I woke up at the house of someone I knew, not remembering very á
much about what had been said or done during the party on the á
previous night."
When I failed some tests my first year at CAL.
Failed in a piblic argument.
Cannot remember such a situation.
Participating in a theft several years ago.
"When some unforgiving acquaintance dragged up an old and rather á
embarassing situation from my past."
"I made an unkind remark about the ethnicity of some friends á
without realizing it."
"A serious drug error while nursing that I knew I was responsible á
for (patient lived, no complications fortunately)."
Stealing money from my parents when I was young.
"A conflict with a pupil and there were probatory teachers á
present."
After a big fight with my parents.
I found I was pregnant and unmarried.
Fighting with my father while drunk.
NO RESPONSE.
"I went to bed with a girl and the next day she thought it was the á
start of something serious and I just thought it was fun and I á
told her I wasn't interested in starting a serious relationship."
"Like guilt - the most ashamed I have ever felt was when I began á
to feel guilty about having sex with my boyfriend when it was á
only ""the thing to do"", and not really an act of love."
My father insulted by other people.
"When I confessed to my girl-friend (now my wife) that I had á
betrayed her with another woman."
"When a close friend entrusted me with a secret and I let the cat á
out of the bag."
"When I was unable to respond to a welcome in my indigenous á
language of Maori at an important function where I was the only á
woman in the group and it was expected of me."
NO RESPONSE.
"I borrowed $ 20.00 from a friend and paid him back much later á
than I had originally intended."
"I told Mr Winter of Downtown Fashion to go to - when he did not á
accept my Visa !"
Not finishing homework.
"On a social occasion, I noticed that I reacted on the basis of my á
autonomous nerve system (I could not help it)."
"Put down by my father - at a family outing at mutual family á
friends dinner. Told ""Not to Speak"". The attitude by him was á
negative/I was in mid 20s, I had done many things - a wide range á
of experiences. Probably greater than he."
"I wanted my boyfriend to stay when he didn't. He stayed but when á
he left I felt ashamed because I should have let him leave when á
he wanted. I was too selfish."
"I felt shame at the hurt I caused to my family especially my á
parent father, shame of hurting people emotionally. A misconceived á
self-blaming that didn't do me any good. Shame at being myself as á
I am."
"We got into a fight with some chaps in front of our family house. á
The value of the property destroyed was approximately 15 000 FIM. á
I felt ashamed when my parents came to know about this."
NO RESPONSE
"That my brother and father are into alcohol, two men with á
priviledge. Not using it positively."
Doesn't apply.
"I went to study in a public library but I didn't know it well. I á
got a book and wanted to study hearing music. Then I went to a á
place were I could do it, but when I passed by a door a bell rang á
and a man came saying that I couldn't leave with the bo"
"Not having owned up to the responsibility an incident where á
family car received minor damage."
I lost my driver's licence because of speeding.
"While intoxicated I invaded someone's (a girl's) personal space á
to a large extent."
Doing poorly on an exam that I thought I should do well.
"When the class leader read out the names of those chosen for the á
English lecture and I was not on the list."
"Talking about a person's unattractiveness, not realizing that the á
person was listening."
Not doing well in the examn.
"The people on my floor last year were very close. This year 4 of á
our best friends live together in an apartment. My boyfriend and á
I dropped by on one of their birthdays and stayed for dinner. Two á
other people had already been invited and I felt unco"
Was caught stealing apples in a neighbor's garden.
Forgot to do some shopping that I had promised to do.
"When I went to explain to a lecturer whom I liked that the work á
expected of me was not going to be in."
"Defying my parents and staying out all night when I wasn't á
supposed to."
"My sister said I am not a stable person, and I think she is á
right."
"When my natural parents name would show up on papers and not my, á
what I call real name."
"Having finally to admit I was wrong, after having denied it for a á
long time."
Caught lying to my father about a speeding ticket I had received.
When ditched - divorced by husband.
When unjustified hurting other people.
"I criticised an action of my mother and for the first time she á
genuinely took notice of it. I felt shame that I was almost á
taking the part of a husband, or at least an equal which I should á
not."
"I saw a terrible accident happen and I laughed a lot of the á
fright and because I was nervous."
"Recently, some friends and I had too much to drink while on a á
foot-ball road trip to USC. We trashed our hotel room and I felt á
ashamed when the maid walked in the next morning."
"During carnaval I danced for a few minutes normally I don't dance á
because I am rigid in my moving around during a dance, I stopped á
very soon."
An exam where questions about very specific knowledge were asked.
When I made an end on a relationship after three years.
"One night a friend found out that I dumped one girl for another á
and he proceded to lecture me."
China not doing well in the Asian Olympic games.
"I felt shame when I didn't study enough for my exams and as a á
result I failed. I then invented idle stories to talk it good for á
myself and the others."
Stealing from my mother's purse when I was a little boy.
"At the airport, eighty beer cans that I was carrying in a á
bag spread all around while I was going through the metal á
detector."
"When I am in an auditorium with people and I ask a silly question á
so that everyone starts to laugh."
Hit a dog with my car, and didn't stop.
"I entered the wrong room, and got into a bed where someone á
already was sleeping."
Not doing well in examns which I should do well (English examns).
"When given responsibility to grade papers in elementary school, I á
cheated a little and graded my own higher."
"Some weeks ago I experienced a day that everything went wrong I á
broke several things I felt very ashamed for I am not a sloven."
"When the cast general election resulted in Norway getting a á
conservative government."
"Once in a public ladies room, I opened the door of a cubicle that á
was taken, although it was not locked."
"When I sat in the wrong discussion section in the beginning of á
the semester. I insisted on being in the right section and the á
TA's list should have included my name. When I found out that I á
was in the wrong, I apologized, turned red and left."
"When I as a Pakeha (white) new Zealander, was just as racially á
prejudiced as other people whom I had condemned."
"I took my math midterm and got it back the following Wednesday in á
class. It was a totally low grade."
[ No response.]
"When I have suffered a terrible fit of eating, that frequently á
occurs. Then I eat everything, I act like a glutton I eat big á
amounts of food, sometimes even half a loaf."
[ No response.]
"I was complaining about calling people whom I didn't know. I á
forgot that the purpose is to invite people for dinner and get to á
know them."
"We had arranged a beach party with 20 people. There my father got á
drunk I felt very ashamed."
Finding out China is backward in science.
"I had subscribed for this test. We were informed by our á
secretary where the test took place. We went over there and thought á
there was a course. So we went back again I felt ashamed that the á
secretary again should see me."
[ No response.]
After the car accident in GUILT.
"I was wearing a short skirt one day and someone told me my á
underwear was showing."
"I fell down in the bus when it braked suddenly and everybody á
started looking at me."
"I ate very fattening food in front of my boyfriend who would like á
me to lose weight. I am supposedly pursuing a modelling career á
but first I must lose weight. I had been trying to diet."
"I felt shame when I saw someone I knew and pretended not to see á
her. Later she saw me and said hi."
A mishap suffered on misinterpreting a girl's proposition.
Finding out that I was deceived by my friend.
"When I got my fingers stuck in one of the side holes of the door, á
in the tube."
Comments from other children on my alcoholic father
"I borrowed a gold bracelet without the girl's knowledge. I had it á
for so long I had to keep it. To this day I feel ashamed at á
myself for having it. I never wear the thing anymore."
"Since I've been here I haven't written to any of my relatives. I got á
a letter from my mom telling me how upset my grandparents are á
from not hearing from me."
"Finding out that China does not have enough foreign currency to á
buy books."
"I cannot remember a situation in which I felt ashamed. I was á
eating with some people and a little boy I took care of. I warned á
him often not to knock down his glass of mild. When I took á
out his chair I knocked down my own glass."
"My father died after two very painful weeks in bed. I felt á
relieved, and was ashamed of that."
My grand father caught me eating his private jelly bean supply.
"When I had come home drunk the day after a party, I felt very á
ashamed in front of my parents."
"When taking part in the mobbing of one of my best friends in á
primary school."
"I told my primary teacher I hadn't done my homework as my mother á
was in a car accident. My teacher rang that night to see how my á
mother was - she was fine i.e. no accident !"
"When I found out my roommate had been talking behind my back á
about very personal things."
Not doing well in the examn.
"Taking part in the mobbing of some girls in my class in primary á
school."
"When I was 15 my mother discovered various items in my room which á
15 year olds aren't usually expected to have - mainly alcohol, á
marijuana and contraceptives !"
Not doing well in an examn which was easy.
"When dropping a carton of boiling soup onto a co-worker's leg - á
causing great pain, and for me, severe embarassment at my own á
ineptitude, and shame that another person suffered as a result."
If I don't go to lectures, I often feel ashamed.
"The 2nd time someone I had met cared for came over to my house I á
was absolutely inebriated and was sick into a bucket."
"I am chosen for the English lectures instead of my good friend á
and people told me that girls are more likely to be chosen."
When I was 10, I got busted for stealing a candy-bar.
"I was severely reprimanded for a trivial offence in front of á
members of my peer group while still at school."
"Was accused of having hidden intentions in a situation when I á
believed I was acting honestly and fairly."
"Close friend discovered I had deceived them. Felt shame at having á
done it and knowing that they knew."
My boat didn't win a race which we were favored to win.
"On own reading book. Recall came to mind of slight sexual á
exploitation of a female (years ago) i.e. had her on even for á
sexual motives."
Lying to my grandparents about visiting my boyfriend in Chico.
"Being caught by parents in a compromising situation with á
girlfriend."
Not finishing my duty as a class leader.
"When I purposely locked my babysitter out of the house at age 4 á
because I DIDN'T LIKE HER."
"I was amongst a group of people talking about how the Maori á
people were stirrers and causing trouble in our country. I felt á
shame to be a pakeha when other pakehas had such narrow á
conservative views."
Cheating to get the best grade on a test in 7th grade.
"When I get an exam back with a grade that I did not desire. Then á
I get mad at myself and say that I could have done better."
China not winning more gold medals in the Asian Olympics.
"When I let my girlfriend use my essay to help her to write hers á
and the tutor found them alike."
I overreacted towards my mother and felt ashamed afterwards.
"Saw on TV China not winning more gold medals in the Asian á
Olympics."
"I was angry about 3 months ago and I kicked backwards against the á
wall. It caved in and so I had to show it to my parents. I had á
been angry after my mother said something to me about not being á
able to find clothes in my size - something that I'm sen"
Breaking an implicit promise.
"Feeling inadequate in a group situation, being unable to convey á
my own thoughts and feelings."
"My father died 4 years ago, 18 months after my mother died. I á
feld my sister was responsible for his death, in that she ""hadn't á
loved him"". I felt ashamed for myself, and for my family."
Being criticized by teacher in public.
"When I lied to my best friend about a boy she really liked but he á
didn't like her. I told her he did and she bugged him for a long á
time embarrassing herself."
"I was making very strong statements about infidelity in couples. á
Then I discovered that one of my best friends, who had just been through á
a very sad case of mutual infidelity, was listening."
When I considered writing a load of crap for this emotion.
Not doing my share of the work for the house job.
"Sleeping with a girl on a Saturday night and then not contacting á
her in later days."
"I was talking badly about a person to some friends, and á
discovered that his daughter was listening."
"I passed on some gossip that was untrue and cause two friends to á
have a fight who were already experiencing difficulties with each á
other."
When I got 1/2 out of 15 in Abnormal Psychology I felt ashamed.
"I could have died when I was caught cheating on a test in high á
school. That was my first and last time."
"When I failed the twelveth standard exams I was ashamed at á
having to see my parents later."
This happens to me when I am not prepared in a given subject.
"When I was caught telling a white lie.  At that time, I was not á
allowed to stay outdoors after 8 p.m.  One day when I was late, I á
made up a story that our neighbour had invited me to his place, á
though I had actually forgotten about the time while pl"
"When not fulfilling any of my obligations to a person whom I á
respect."
Failing in an examn.
When I failed the M.S.C exam.
"Again, a quarrel had come up in our difficult relationship.  My á
life-partner threw all the books off the shelf.  I am sure that it á
disturbed our neighbours since this happened late in the night."
"When I was on holiday with my former boyfriend, he hit me and á
behaved in a very evil and ugly manner in front of the hotel á
personnel."
"China cannot let you give more lectures because you are needed in á
the specialist clinics. We are so backward in medicine."
Failing in an examn because of lazyness.
A theft committed by me.
"In an express bus I sat on a seat meant for senior citizens and á
invalids."
"Exaggerating certain circumstances, wrong attitude and evaluation á
of these circumstances."
"One day in the TYBA class the teacher asked me a very simple á
question which I could not answer.  Finally the teacher himself á
gave us the answer and my friends started laughing at me as I had á
not been able to answer a simple question.  I knew the ans"
I lied to my best friend and I wouldn't reform what I had done.
When I approached a person of the opposite sex and was rejected.
After shouting at a friend.
When, for example, I fail in my undertakings.
"I travelled on a bus and I forgot to punch the ticket. A ticket á
collector came in and I had to pay the fine. I did it with a feeling á
of shame."
When I try to lie.
I didn't offer my seat to a pregnant woman in the bus.
"I had always been first in my class and in the preliminary board á
exams I scored the highest marks.  Then the exams were á
postponed and I neglected my studies as I was confident.  However á
when the final results came out I felt ashamed as I had scored "
"I thought I would be able to use the mangle of the house, and so á
I did not want any help.  However, I blocked it and I had to get á
the janitor to help me out.  He reproached me for not having á
followed the instructions"
"I had to prepare a report but I couldn't write it. I read from a á
book off-hand, I was quite uneasy and I felt I didn't manage."
Failing university entrance examn.
"I counterfeited a mark in the school register during the lesson á
in gymnastics. I felt this feeling two days later when I stood á
face to face with my teacher, whom I highly appreciated and á
respected."
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
"I was carried away while talking about my visits abroad and I á
tended to boast a little, till I realized that the listener was á
amused."
"I talked with a man who stammered and without controlling myself, á
I started to talk imitating him."
"I felt ashamed when I had not attended a class and the teacher asked á
me the reason for my absence. "
"When you betray the trust you have been given. This is connected á
with copying at a class-work at school."
"Badly chosen words to a vague acquaintance of mine made me feel á
ashamed at having given the wrong impression about what I wanted á
to say.  Thoughtlessness."
Watching TV about china is behind in winning gold medals.
I felt this feeling during the exam in higher mathematics.
When I failed the ninth standard exam in school.
I said something especially stupid which I did not mean at all.
"I had not punched a ticket in the bus because I had a card. But á
when the ticket-collector came it turned out that I had forgotten á
it. The shame I felt was great though it was not done on purpose."
"Whenever I am late, I feel ashamed of myself even though no one á
tells me anything."
"I feel shame when sometimes, (unconsciously) I behave unethically á
and without understanding the problems of the man I love."
When I promise to do something but I don't fulfill it.
"I feel shy to show all my worth when I work for the first time á
with a conductor or a producer unfamiliar to me."
"I got into a tight pair of trousers and examined myself in the á
mirror.  My back looked unpresentable and I felt ashamed at my á
wanting to wear those clothes that day.  I quickly changed into á
another dress."
Insulted by somebody.
"Adultery with the girlfriend of a friend of mine, of which he á
learned."
"I told evil lies about a close friend of mine.  I was evil in á
order to sound jolly, to charm a person whom I wanted to impress. á
 I sold my friend, I was despicable."
"My first girlfriend. I had the feeling that she was going out á
with me only because of my defect."
"I felt ashamed when I fought with my mother on some issue, and á
caused her trouble."
"When I hadn't learnt my lesson and I asked the teacher to give me á
""a three"" and he agreed but even he felt quite awkward.
NB: In Bulgarian schools ""a three"" is the second worst mark."
"I was dishonest to my boyfriend concerning something that is á
important to our relationship."
"When some of my close friends and colleagues talk about me and á
my work and say that I am the brightest student of the college."
"When my co-resident opened the bathroom door while I was bathing á
inside."
When I do something unworthy.
"After our sad first of May party, I felt ashamed because the á
friends who had been invited had to suffer.  We, the organizers á
of the party, did not drive the intruders away."
[ No response.]
"I was given the task to learn a page of music text for a small á
part. But I had forgotten all about it and I felt quite awkward á
when I had to show what I had prepared."
"I feel shame mixed with anger with the behavior of some á
incultivated people because my fiancT is a foreigner."
Being rude to somebody who was impolite to me.
"While playing I urinated on grandma's floor and did not go to the á
lavatory.  My cousin told grandma and she came."
When I broke-down while seeing off my friend.
"I told a lie about someone to someone else and they found out   á
and questioned me about it."
Arguing about price with private shop-assistant.
Every time I do not write something well in English.
"Finding out that the university police was afraid to stop the á
foreign students playing loud music (China's shame).
"
"A good friend of mine told me in comfidence that once he had á
tried to commit suicide. To meet him you wouldn't think so. I á
told another friend of mine about this when she was feeling á
depressed about her twin brother's suicide. I broke a bond of á
co"
"As part of the assessment I had to speak on a subject in front á
of the class. I was not really prepared and I was just reading á
the stuff I had on a piece of paper, when some of the students  á
asked me something I could not give them an answer.  I felt"
Had to tell people that my parents are divorced.
"[ Generally, when I am late in attending to matters (for example á
paying bills).]"
"A young visitor to the house stole money from an elderly á
visitor's purse. It wasn't noticed for some hours."
"I was ashamed at myself for having shouted at my daughter because á
of my marital break-up and the unfair way I was treated."
"My son was apprehended for shoplifting at the age of 14. Because á
I too had been apprehended at the same age I felt the shame of á
not having been able to prevent my son from acting in the same á
way."
"When after having had sexual intercourse with a friend, I thought á
that he had told about it to a friend of his."
"A daughter in court for staff pilfering, she was dressed like a á
""street walker"" - I had a friend form overseas with me and was á
falsely trying to impress with my family."
"I am ashamed when I am not prepared in a subject and I have to á
answer in the presence of the patients."
"In my 20s - and was going out to dinner to celebrate a friend's á
birthday. Her (older - in 30s) cousin, really wanted me to get á
drunk cos I'd visited their (cousin & wife) place quite a bit, á
but had always been very careful - brought up to believe in"
I failed an exam which I thought I would certainly pass.
"In the past I experienced this feeling almost all the time - á
wherever I went, in different sutuations. I was small and I had á
to be taken to kindergarten, but me the fool didn't dare to tell á
exactly where, finally as a result I was late."
"When I could not pass my exams with good marks.  My wedding was á
to take place 15 days after the exams and I tried to convince á
myself that this was the reason for my not having done well.   á
However, I thought that had I really put my mind to doing we"
"Recently I saw a young girl fawning on a man. And what for - á
money and things. I was ashamed to be a woman."
"Finding out from this lecture that China is backward in á
psychology."
"When I noticed that a person I found attractive had seen me á
picking my nose."
The first time that I had to go up on the stage to give a speech.
"An argument that grew out of an ordinary conversation with a á
person very close to me, when we should have been having a good á
time together."
"I feared that I would have to describe my sexual life to an á
older, strange woman."
"I arrived late at a seminar concerning my major subject at á
university, although I had been appointed to formally oppose the á
paper which was being presented."
"When I wasn't well prepared for a terminal exam and the teacher á
tried to give me a three by asking me some very easy questions. I á
burned with shame then."
"I made a major mistake while learning how to use a computer programme á
and the teacher criticized me."
"The fact that I was pregnant. I was always considered level á
headed and did not have sex until 18 and out of high school."
"During our last exarcise in agricultural machines we went out in á
the yard to examine a row of machines. But we seemed not to have á
fulfilled our task well, because when our teacher came and asked á
me a question I was unable to answer. I felt awkward b"
I feel ashamed when I act dishonestly toward somebody.
Saw a beggar on the street (China still so poor).
I slandered a person behind his back and he got to know about it.
The same for guilt would apply.
"I felt ashamed when I was confronted by a teaching assistant that á
a close friend and I were accused of cheating on a math exam."
I felt shame when I discontinued my education for eight months. 
"I had promised to help out with domestic chores and I forgot á
about it."
"I came home from school very keyed up. At the dinner table I á
unfortunately unloaded a lot of my hostility off on one of my á
parents. I'm ashamed that I didn't dispate and control these á
feelings before coming to the table or even let the energy build "
"I feel shame when I have made a promise, I can't keep it and this á
has negative effects which are caused by my behavior."
Finding out about Chinese money cannot buy foreign journals.
"A truth expressed unthinkingly at a coffee party.  I realized á
later that I had been inconsiderate, at a wrong moment and the á
wrong place."
"When I was small, I would always fight with my younger sister and á
one time I hit her and knocked the wind out of her. I felt real á
bad about it."
"I was examined by a teacher I greatly respected. I was well á
prepared on the subjects but he put some side-issues to me and I á
couldn't answer."
"I was at a children's camp abroad. The people (the leaders, my á
coevals) were very king to us. One night we smeared our foreign á
friends with tooth-paste while they were sleeping and then we á
roused the whole camp by our shouts. Later I was so sorry. I"
"Some days ago I had a car accident. It was quite slight but á
through my fault. I felt strong shame because I had the spirits á
of a good driver."
"Some time ago I promised to meet an acquaintance of mine and to á
carry him some promised papers. I haven't done it until this day. á
Now I feel quite awkward when I meet him."
"I saw a skid-row (chronical) alcoholic and I was ashamed of the á
people with a high standard of living."
"My love and me rented a room in a hotel one evening.  We stayed á
there a few hours and when leaving the hotel, I felt ashamed."
"Losing my temper and allowing myself to act childishly by yelling á
and screaming at a person who I felt had done me wrong - in á
effect lowering myself to their level."
"At the funeral of my uncle, I was one of the bearers.  I was not á
familiar with the etiquette and acted tactlessly because of my á
ignorance."
"I was supposed to go out with my girlfriend one Saturday night, á
but I got really drunk with some friends earlier that afternoon á
and evening. So, I totally forgot about going out with my á
girlfriend. She showed up the next day, and that was when I á
r"
"When for the first and the last time I tried to crib and the á
teacher was with her back to me but right when I was taking the á
materials out she turned round and saw me."
Criticized in front of the class.
"When I lied to my girlfriend, telling her that I had passed an á
exam, when I actually did not even take it."
When I first had a sexual intercourse.
China cannot buy your reference.
"Once I had dinner at an elegant restaurant and I did not have á
enough money to pay the bill. There were a lot of people there á
and I felt quite awkward."
When I dated my friend's boyfriend after they had broken up.
"I had a test in the class and I had not adequately prepared á
myself. I didn't fare so well on the exam and I felt bad about á
it."
"I have always felt ashamed for some people's behavior to their á
too old parents. I have felt hurt and shy when they have left á
them to the mercy of fate."
Telling a lie.
"That was what I felt when I told my first lie and then was á
cought."
"A man asked me: ""May I sleep in your stairway?""  and I answered á
""No""."
"I tried after months to begin talking to my boyfriend again. He á
ignored me. I felt I had lowered my pride and became his á
""doormat""."
"I felt ashamed when my parents found out that I had deceived á
them."
"Immediately after the New Year holidays I happened to visit a á
party where there was a lot of alcohol and I became drunk. On the á
next day I felt sort of ashamed when I remembered what I had said á
and done on the night before."
"We were at a football match and when we were leaving the stadium á
(the stadium was packed with people) and I lost my shoe in the á
crowd. Our attempts to find it didn't give any result and I had á
to go home without one shoe. In other words to cross the "
"After taking a difficult midterm for one of my classes, I felt á
shame for not studying as much as I should have. I was ashamed of á
the results of the midterm."
As a child when I was blamed for peeing in the swimming-pool.
"I am ashamed when I am not ready for my seminar in internal á
diseases, simply because the assistant professor is a person who á
deserves high respect."
"At school I was talking to a classmate about mathematics.  I had á
grown weary of it and said : ""I would like to throw the book on á
the arse of Kuikka"".  My classmate said : ""Now, he is sitting á
there and waiting for the book"" (Kuikka was one of the mos"
I did bad on a test I didn't study for.
"I was nailed. I lied in connection with a book which I took from á
the library, because I had to keep it for a longer time."
Being insulted in public.
I thought I had taken a decision but I hesitated.
"I had promised to lend something to my mother-in-law and I forgot á
it a couple of times.  When she asked me about it the third time, á
I was ashamed at my absent-mindedness."
When I failed the S.S.C examination I felt very ashamed.
When my friend let my personal matters be publicaly known.
"I feel this feeling at one and the same degree when I am not á
prepared to overcome certain obstacle in my life."
When I forgot a promise made to a friend of mine.
"I had a habit of wetting my bed when I was young.  One day, when á
I was invited to my friend's place to stay for the night, it á
happened again.  I was ashamed of myself."
Not being able to argue against class leaders.
At a weakness on my part.
The morning after a wild party.
"When the teacher asked me a question in class, concerning á
something I had read earlier, and I did not know the answer, so I á
felt ashamed in front of the whole class."
When I don't succeed to fulfill a promise.
[ I have never felt this emotion.]
"When I found a letter addressed ""To Mum"" by my son, 6 months á
later, he begged me not to sell his new shoes which he messed up á
after wearing them for the first time."
"I was to take part in a cocktail party on the occasion of our á
national holiday as a servant."
"While quarelling with a fellow worker of mine, I was vehement and á
irritated and I told him what I thought of him in plain language.  á
I was ashamed of myself when I met him the next day."
Insulted by a teacher in front of the class.
"At an exam in pharmacology I tried to prompt a coleague (she á
asked me something) and the assistant professor made me a sharp á
remark."
"My girlfriend was away visiting another city and I brought á
another girl home. Next morning when I started getting sober I á
felt quite ashamed of myself."
"My grades. When my parents say, ""How are you doing at school, á
getting good grades ?"" I say, ""Great, just fine !"" Actually, I á
feel ashamed about myself."
"I didn't tell my parents that I was going to Sofia. I told them á
that I was going to a seminar. My mother knew that I was lying but á
she didn't stop me."
"Went to a lecture about Chinese history and hear about the Opium á
War."
"On the way back from a Summer spent in Sweden, I drunk with a man á
in the train.  I had drunk so much that when I got home I fell á
asleep in the entrance hall.  I have never drunk that much, á
neither before nor after that incident.  I was ashamed becau"
"I was ashamed of the way I deceived that I could not help a á
friend, although it was absolutely possible for me. Nothing was á
revealed but I haven't called up this person since then."
"I was supposed to do something and didn't. The person was really á
dependiong on me."
"I was embarassed at the exam in microbiology. I was ashamed with á
myself - how little I knew and how good was the examinor. I á
rarely become ashamed."
"I was totally unprepared for a seminar conducted by an assistant á
professor whom I highly respect."
Getting a low grade on a midterm.
"I am ashamed of the way my father behaves with my mother and á
sister, and with me too."
Running away from a fire.
Once I was not ready for a seminar and I was asked to leave.
"As a little girl, I was sick in the middle of a school day and I á
vomitted in the basin of the classroom."
I felt this when I was copying homework for one of my classes.
"I experienced long ago when I was sightseeing Bulgarians in a á
foreign language."
Failing an examn because I did not work hard enough.
"I was talking to a friend of mine about our parents and á
education.  I said something and then realized that I did not á
know my friend's parents, their motives and education.  I felt á
ashamed at having talked about something I did not know anything á
a"
"Arguing with a friend over politics. She was more informed on the á
issues and made me feel very ashamed of my political ignorance."